The Toys R Us logo is seen in this illustration photo September 19, 2017.
REUTERS/Thomas White/Illustration

(Reuters) - This summer, toy supplier Product Launchers delivered 100,000 specially ordered DC Comics fidget spinners to Toys R Us, unaware that the biggest U.S. toy store chain was in financial trouble.
Now Product Launchers, which supplies other novelty items like squishies from five toymakers to Toy R Us, expects it will not be paid for the $500,000 fidget spinner order and other items following the chains Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing on Sept. 19, Product Launchers Chief Executive Linda Parry Murphy told Reuters.
These toymakers were very reliant on Toys R Us.
Its their primary account, or the account that they were leaning on to make inroads in the toy industry, looking at the long term down the road, Parry Murphy said.
But weve made a decision not to sell to Toys moving forward.
Meanwhile Barbie maker Mattel Inc (MAT.O), toy and board game company Hasbro Inc (HAS.O) and other large vendors like Lego could get full payment after Toys R Us asked a bankruptcy judge to approve $325 million of special financing to pay top suppliers owed before the Chapter 11 filing.
The unequal vendor treatment is not unusual in a Chapter 11 bankruptcy, but it shows the tough decisions vendors face when retailers file for bankruptcy, as dozens have in recent years, succumbing to competition on price and convenience from Amazon.com Inc (AMZN.O).
The beneficiaries of the financing package are still unknown, but smaller vendors like Product Launchers do not expect to make the list.
Its claim tops $1 million but the amount is well below the $2.5 million to $135 million listed as Toys R Us 50 largest claims.
Toy R Us declined to comment on specifics about its relationship with Product Launchers or its other vendors.
Toys R Us spokeswoman Nicole Hayes said in an email: So far, we have seen great support from our vendors and look forward to continuing working with them for many years to come.
She said the company will rely on $2 billion in new financing to fund operations.
TOUGH CHOICES

Hundreds of vendors have faced similar concerns in their dealings with bankrupt retailers such as Sports Authority and hhgregg, which ended up going out of business.
Toys R Us is an extraordinary case, retail consultants said, because of the large number of toy vendors it relies on to fill its big-box stores.
Typically in bankruptcy proceedings, even small vendors like Product Launchers can expect to receive payment for orders made after a bankruptcy filing, but not for past-due bills.
As a result, Product Launchers is ending ties with the toy chain.
Weve taken down all connections to them, said Parry Murphy.
I would rather focus on retailers that have strong financials and that we have a good comfort level about doing long-term business with.
At this point, she thinks Toys R Us is too far behind the curve to catch up with deep-pocketed competitors like Amazon and Wal-Mart Stores Inc (WMT.N).
HOT ITEMS

The loss of Product Launchers and other vendors, coming on the verge of the holiday season when Toys R Us generates about 40 percent of annual sales, shows one of the risks facing the big toy retailer during bankruptcy.
If consumers discover the chain is not stocking a hot seasonal item, they will not visit its stores or website, Toys R Us said in court filings.
Toys R Us relies on hundreds of small vendors to give its stores the appearance of plenty.
Your store wont be attractive with just Mattel and Lego, said Israel Shaked of the Michel-Shaked Group consultancy.
Retail specialists agreed that the 2017 holiday season could determine the fate of many brick-and-mortar retailers that have struggled to remain relevant in a growing era of e-commerce.
This holiday season will be a true litmus test for the in-store experience, said bankruptcy lawyer Corali Lopez-Castro.
The products have to be exciting and worthy of visiting the store or online.
But really you want people in the store.
Thats where they can pick up the widget, the Lego, and the Barbie.
Toys R Us success in retaining vendors likely will hinge on confidence in its turnaround plan, dubbed Project Sunrise, which envisions improved and integrated online and in-store shopping experiences.
Michael Araten, the chief executive of creative construction company KNEX, is optimistic.
The potential upside is massive, Araten said, adding that Toys R Us would emerge from bankruptcy a nimbler and stronger company that delights kids for generations.
The Wall Street sign is seen outside the New York Stock Exchange, March 26, 2009.
REUTERS/Chip East

NEW YORK (Reuters) - A long stretch of low volatility for U.S. stocks has made betting on continued calm a popular and lucrative trade, but traders and strategists warn that risks to the trade have mounted, while the potential for profits has shrunk.
U.S. equity market volatility - the daily fluctuations in stock prices - has hovered near record lows for much of this year.
The CBOE Volatility Index .VIX, a gauge of the degree to which investors expect share prices to fluctuate, has averaged 11.4 this year.
That is lower than for any comparable period over its nearly three-decade history.
Robust corporate earnings, encouraging economic growth and a view that world central banks are available to rescue markets if trouble strikes, have helped mute stock market gyrations and spell success for those betting on calm.
The VelocityShares Daily Inverse VIX Short-Term ETN (XIV.P), which makes money as long as the volatility drops or holds in place, is up about 100 percent this year.
Some traders, however, have grown more wary of increased risks to the trade.
I think a lot of folks have gotten lulled into a false sense of security because the short trade has gone so well for so long, said Matt Thompson co-head of Volatility Group at Typhon Capital LLC, in Chicago.
We are still shorting volatility but we have an itchier trigger finger.
VOLATILITY-LINKED ETPs

While there are many ways to short volatility - bet on lower stock gyrations - investors hunger for this trade is particularly apparent in the growth in volatility-linked exchange traded products (ETPs).
Assets under management for the top two short volatility products is at $2.8 billion and their exposure to volatility is at an all-time high, according to Barclays Capital.
But the very popularity of the trade has cranked up the risk.
These products hold first and second month volatility futures, buying and selling these contracts daily to keep their volatility exposure in line with the level of stock swings in the market.
Managers of these leveraged and inverse products are required to buy volatility futures as they go up and sell when they decline.
Strategists fear that this rebalancing - which needs be even more pronounced if a shock follows a period of unusually muted volatility, such as now - may be akin to adding fuel to fire.
There could be a feedback effect and maybe selling begets more selling, said Salil Aggarwal, equity derivatives strategist at Deutsche Bank in New York.
Risk/reward considerations would imply cutting positions to more manageable levels, he said.
RISK VS REWARD

Meanwhile, investors are not reaping as much for taking on risk as they did in the past, said Anand Omprakash, director of equity and derivative strategy at BNP Paribas, in New York.
What traders are being paid to take on the short volatility risk currently, is slightly below their average historical take since January 2013, and roughly 6 percent lower than what they were paid monthly in mid-2016, Omprakash estimates.
You were being paid much better for much of 2016 than for much of 2017, he said.
I dont know if I would necessarily say the trade has run out of steam, but I dont think it offers the kind of risk adjusted return that it offered last year.
And the stakes are high.
Strategists warn that one or two big shocks could wipe away months of profits.
The inverse volatility product XIV, while having doubled in price this year, logged an 11.4 percent decline in August as stock gyrations picked up briefly amid escalating worries about the ability of the administration of President Donald Trump to push through its economic agenda.
The risk/reward of the trade as a buy and hold proposition is not the same as it was before the U.S. election or in the middle of the oil crisis in 2015 and early 2016, said Stephen Aniston, president of investment adviser Black Peak Capital, in Connecticut.
Positioning in these products, primarily driven by retail players, may be more skewed to the short side than the broader market where institutional investors hold sway.
I dont think the risk is necessarily as big on the institutional side as it is on the retail side, said Omprakash.
To be sure, not everyone is rushing to bet on a spike in volatility, but experts do warn that investors should tread carefully when shorting volatility from here.
(Reuters) - T-Mobile US Inc (TMUS.O) is close to agreeing tentative terms on a deal to merge with Sprint Corp (S.N), people familiar with the matter said on Friday, a major breakthrough in efforts to merge the third and fourth largest U.S. wireless carriers.
The transaction would significantly consolidate the U.S. telecommunications market and represent the first transformative U.S. merger with significant antitrust risk to be agreed since the inauguration of U.S. President Donald Trump in January.
The progress toward a deal also indicates that T-Mobile and Sprint believe that the U.S. antitrust enforcement environment has become more favorable since the companies abandoned their previous effort to combine in 2014 amid regulatory concerns.
The latest development in the talks between T-Mobile and Sprint comes as the telecommunications sector seeks ways to tackle investments in 5G technology that will greatly enhance wireless data transfer speeds.
Japans SoftBank Group Corp (9984.T), which controls Sprint, and other Sprint shareholders will own 40 to 50 percent of the combined company, while T-Mobile majority owner Deutsche Telekom (DTEGn.DE) and the rest of T-Mobile shareholders will own the majority, the sources said.
SoftBank founder Masayoshi Son met with Trump late last year and said in February that the Japanese firm should benefit from Trumps promised deregulation.
Once terms are finalized, due diligence by the two companies will follow and a deal is expected by the end of October, though talks may still fall through, the sources said.
Related Coverage Sprint hired Trump-connected lobbyist amid deal talks

A merger would create a business with more than 130 million subscribers, just behind Verizon Communications Inc (VZ.N) and AT&T Inc (T.N).
Revenues would top $70 billion and analysts say there would be massive scope to cut costs.
Sprint shares were up 5 percent in afternoon trading in New York on Friday to $8.44, giving the company a market capitalization of close to $34 billion.
T-Mobile shares were up 0.4 percent to $63.66, giving that company a market capitalization of around $53 billion.
The sources asked not to be identified because the negotiations are confidential.
Sprint and Deutsche Telekom declined to comment.
T-Mobile and SoftBank did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
SoftBanks Son abandoned an earlier attempt to acquire T-Mobile for Sprint in 2014.
Under that deal, SoftBank would have been in control of the merged company, with Deutsche Telekom becoming a minority shareholder.
Smartphones with the logos of T-Mobile and Sprint are seen in this illustration taken September 19, 2017.
REUTERS/Dado Ruvic/Illustration

Since then, T-Mobile has outperformed Sprint under Chief Executive John Legere, who the sources said would lead the combined company.
SON IN TRUMP TOWER

Earlier this month, Federal Communications Commission Chairman Ajit Pai gave a potential boost to a tie-up when he recommended that the FCC find for the first since 2009 that there is effective competition in the marketplace for mobile wireless services.
The FCC is set to vote on Tuesday on the proposed annual report on the state of the wireless competition market required by U.S. Congress.
Slideshow (2 Images)

T-Mobile and Sprint will likely tout planned investments in 5G and their network that would create jobs, though combining operations would also lead to layoffs, said Roger Entner, an analyst at Recon Analytics.
They will argue that the track record of T-Mobile and Sprint shows they are vigorous competitors and that this will not cease to be the case after the deal, said Entner.
Son made headlines in early December when he appeared in the marble lobby of Trump Tower in New York alongside the president-elect, dressed in a red vest and red tie nearly identical to that of the tycoon turned commander in chief.
He was among the first in a series of Asian billionaires and leaders to pay a congratulatory visit to Trump, who won office in November on a platform that focused on national security and protecting U.S. jobs.
Sons pledge to Trump to invest $50 billion in the United States and create 50,000 jobs was light on details but spoke to the presidents election promise to boost economic growth by making deals with individual companies, rather than through complicated trade deals.
Last month, Sprint CEO Marcelo Claure said an announcement on merger talks should come in the near future.
Sprint had approached cable company Charter Communications Inc (CHTR.O) about a potential merger earlier this year, but quickly abandoned that effort.
AT&T is in the process of getting its own transformative deal, its $85.4 billion acquisition of media conglomerate Time Warner Inc (TWX.N) approved by U.S. regulators.
The Uber logo is seen on a screen in Singapore August 4, 2017.
REUTERS/Thomas White

BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The European Commission wants more social protection and rights for casual workers, such as those in the gig economy, and others with non-standard contracts to try to tackle growing social inequality.
The Commissions consultation document on these plans, seen by Reuters, is part of a broader reworking of the EUs economic priorities, after pressure from populist forces that accuse Brussels of having pursued ultra-liberal policies to the detriment of workers.
The document proposes a substantial review of EUs social rights that could partly limit workers flexibility and reduce the growing insecurity caused by new types of jobs offered by firms like Uber [UBER.UL] and food-delivery service Deliveroo.
Brussels is proposing to extend full social protection and other forms of security to all workers, including those on very short-term, part-time and zero-hour contracts who in some EU member countries have lower safeguards.
Most EU workers have full-time, permanent contracts, but a growing number of people, especially the young, have jobs with ultra-flexible working hours, no regular pay and fewer employment protections.
They accounted for more than one third of the total workforce in the 28-country bloc in 2015 and that share is growing, the commission said in the consultation paper to be presented on Monday.
Most of these employees have to work under these conditions in absence of alternatives, the document said.
Non-standard workers tend to have lower levels of social and health security and some new contracts, such as casual or voucher-based work, are even more worrying, the commissions document said.
FILE PHOTO: A cyclist rides a bicyle as he delivers food for Deliveroo, an example of the emergence of what is known as the 'gig economy', in Paris, France, April 7, 2017.
REUTERS/Charles Platiau/File Photo

The Commissions proposals could raise costs for companies like Uber, which is already facing legal disputes in several EU countries and has not had its license renewed in London..

CASUAL?
The Commission is proposing that workers should be properly informed about the conditions of their employment and should be given explanations by their employers for not having a permanent contract after a few years in the same job.
Casual workers should also be entitled to a minimum number of guaranteed hours after a predefined continuous period, the Commission said.
But the enhanced protection would not be applicable to self-employed workers, which could provide a loophole for employers such as Uber and Deliveroo.
Uber says its drivers are self-employed, although in Britain this categorization has recently been challenged by the government.
Other non-standard work contracts, such as paid traineeships and temporary agency work, are also under the Commissions scrutiny as they continue to present challenges from the point of view of job security and adequate working conditions, the consultation document said.
To reduce abuses linked to these forms of contracts, Brussels wants to introduce a maximum duration of employee probation.
The Commission will initially discuss its plans with trade unions and employers, followed by legislative proposals.
A sign is pictured where the third round of NAFTA talks involving the United States, Mexico and Canada is taking place in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, September 23, 2017.
REUTERS/Chris Wattie

OTTAWA (Reuters) - Talks to update the North American Free Trade Agreement intensified on Saturday although U.S. negotiators looked set to once again withhold proposals for one of the Trump administrations most challenging issues.
Teams from the United States, Mexico and Canada kicked off the third of seven planned rounds of discussions in Ottawa amid warnings from trade experts that time was quickly running out to seal a deal by the end of the year as planned.
One key issue is the U.S. desire to strengthen rules of origin for autos, which dictate how much of a vehicles components must originate from within North America to qualify for tax free status.
The American side did not mention a specific goal in the first two rounds and Canadas chief NAFTA negotiator on Saturday said he did not think the United States would provide more details during the Ottawa round.
Were not expecting that, no, Steve Verheul told reporters, predicting the pace of the talks would nonetheless quicken.
According to a schedule of the talks obtained by Reuters, rules of origin will be discussed on Tuesday and Wednesday.
A sign is pictured where the third round of NAFTA talks involving the United States, Mexico and Canada is taking place in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, September 23, 2017.
REUTERS/Chris Wattie

U.S. President Donald Trump wants more U.S. content in autos, citing trade deficits of $64 billion with Mexico and $11 billion with Canada.
Trump, who says NAFTA is weighted against his country, has threatened to walk away from the agreement.
Flavio Volpe, president of the Canadian Automotive Parts Manufacturers Association, said late on Friday he felt it was too early for detailed rule of origin proposals given that U.S. officials were still talking to the domestic industry.
A sign is pictured where the third round of NAFTA talks involving the United States, Mexico and Canada is taking place in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, September 23, 2017.
REUTERS/Chris Wattie

Its fine for us if they take a little longer so we all understand what our interests are and we make the right deal.
We dont need an early deal, he said.
U.S. chief negotiator John Melle said ahead of the talks that his team would introduce the difficult provisions in Ottawa talks that are due to last for five days.
Another tricky issue is labor, given complaints from U.S. and Canadian unions that Mexicos low wages give it a manufacturing advantage.
The United States is also expected to present proposals on intellectual property and investment, sources with knowledge of discussions said.
Other areas of disagreement include dispute settlement mechanisms.
Canadian and Mexican officials, as well as U.S. businesses, have already rejected a proposal by Washington to include a five-year sunset provision in the updated agreement, saying it added uncertainty to investment planning.
A photo illustration shows the Uber app on a mobile telephone, as it is held up for a posed photograph in central London, Britain September 22, 2017.
REUTERS/Toby Melville

LONDON (Reuters) - U.S. taxi firm Uber is prepared to make concessions as it seeks to reverse a decision by London authorities not to renew its license in the city, which represents a potentially big blow for the fast-growing company, a newspaper reported.
The Sunday Times also quoted sources close to Londons transport body as saying the move was encouraging and suggested the possibility of talks.
While we havent been asked to make any changes, wed like to know what we can do, Tom Elvidge, Ubers general manager in London, told the newspaper.
But that requires a dialogue we sadly havent been able to have recently.
A spokesman for Transport for London (TfL) declined to comment.
The Sunday Times said Ubers concessions were likely to involve passenger safety and benefits for its drivers, possible limits on working hours to improve road safety and holiday pay.
TfL stunned the powerful U.S. start-up on Friday when it deemed Uber unfit to run a taxi service for safety reasons and stripped it of its license from Sept. 30, although the company can continue to operate while it appeals.
The regulator cited failures to report serious criminal offences, conduct sufficient background checks on drivers and other safety issues.
Uber responded by urging users in London to sign a petition that said the city authorities had caved in to a small number of people who want to restrict consumer choice.
The move echoed Ubers strategy in disputes with other cities.
By 2200 GMT on Saturday, more than 600,000 people had signed although it was not clear how many of them were in London.
A spokesman for Uber said around 20,000 Uber drivers had emailed the citys mayor directly to object to the decision.
LONDON (Reuters) - Following are five big themes likely to dominate thinking of investors and traders in the coming week and the Reuters stories related to them.
1/ STRONG QUARTER?
NOT HALF

Its the end of the quarter.
And what a remarkable quarter it has been.
Wall Street and world stocks have climbed to record high after record high, chalking up the longest streak of quarterly gains in two decades.
At the same time, volatility has remained anchored at the lowest levels in decades.
By some measures, the last few days have been the calmest in U.S. stock market history.
Bond markets have also been well behaved, considering many of the worlds major central banks are preparing to shrink their balance sheets.
Theres been a little more volatility in FX, with the euro breaking above $1.20 and sterling recovering sharply this month.
What does that mean for next week?
Potentially some profit-taking and position squaring as investors lock in what they got during the quarter.
If thats the case, some weakness in stocks, bonds, and the euro.
Selected stock markets and currencies in Q317: reut.rs/2jQPEG1

2/ ON A ROLL

Sterling has, with a week to go to the end of the third quarter, put in its best performance against the dollar since the second quarter of 2015.
The week ending Sept. 9, when the Bank of England began talking about raising interest rates in what would be its first hike in a decade, was the pounds best in eight years.
Recent days were dominated by anticipation of a major speech on Brexit from UK Prime Minister Theresa May.
In the event, it did not break much new ground for markets and the pound was slightly lower on the day, raising questions over where the impetus for another move higher in sterling will come from.
Sterling and gilt yields: reut.rs/2xW0QqU

3/ SPARE A ROUBLE?
After B&N Bank, Russias 12th biggest lender, became the latest domino to tumble in the countrys banking sector, markets will be on alert for hints of more trouble.
B&Ns bailout request came three weeks after the rescue of Otkritie Bank while earlier, licences were revoked at Yugra bank and Tatfondbank.
Investors reckon more banks will fail, stemming from Western sanctions and unbridled expansion before that.
That means Russian financials shares, down 12 percent this year,may see little respite .MICEXFNL (Broader Russian shares have lost 8 percent).
Bonds of afflicted banks have fallen heavily.
As a result, private banks shares and bonds may stay under pressure (PSBR.MM) (CBOM.MM).
There is also the question of expense - bailouts will be financed through a special fund but costs could be huge, with Otkrities capital deficit almost $7 billion and a $6 billion hole likely in B&Ns balance sheet.
Thats on top of the $30 billion deposit insurance thats already been paid to depositors of failed banks.
The central bank will sell bonds and hold deposit auctions to finance the rescue.
But if the sums are massive, it could fuel inflation - a setback in Russias battle against price growth.
That would be bad news for the rouble and Russias local bonds, which have so far easily withstood the bank malaise.
Russian bank shares, bonds: reut.rs/2jQ8ihh

4/ FOR REAL

It used to be that when the Federal Reserve raised rates, Asias emerging economies would follow.
With the U.S. central bank announcing the final stage of its exit from unconventional policies, policymakers are watching for any evidence of risk aversion.
For the moment, though, there are no signs of outflows from the region and there is little pressure to compete for funds with higher rates.
Low inflation is a global pandemic and that keeps real interest rates in Asia attractive.
In fact, India and Indonesia cut rates in August and could even have room to cut again  perhaps even joined by Thailand.
The Thai central bank holds a policy meeting on Sept. 27

Little pressure on Asia to follow Fed's rate hikes: reut.rs/2xWrlN8

5/ IF...

Equifax and bitcoin have been much on investors minds this month.
Fallout from Equifaxs massive data breach, which compromised the social security numbers and other personal information of as many as 143 million Americans, wiped out more than one-third of the companys market value, sending its shares to a more than 2-1/2-year low.
Meanwhile, the price of a bitcoin declined to about $3,000 from a September peak of about $5,100, as Chinese authorities said they would ban trading of the cryptocurrency in their country.
Bitcoin has bounced back above $4,000, but Equifax shares, which fell as low as $89.59 from $142.72 before the scandal broke, have rebounded only to about $96.
If Equifax shares were priced in bitcoin, they would be worth just 2 cents each.
So, as investors enter the final quarter of the year, will Equifax or bitcoin be at the top of managers buy-and-hold list?
Equifax versus Bitcoin: reut.rs/2xUixaD
FILE PHOTO: An employee sits at the reception of the headquarters building of China Life insurance in Beijing, China, March 24, 2016.
REUTERS/Jason Lee/File Photo

HONG KONG (Reuters) - Chinas latest push to revive its bloated state-owned sector is set to pick up pace this year, with bankers and investors expecting possible spin-offs and asset sales to follow a key Communist Party Congress in October.
But the effort is likely to only involve a limited role for private money, even as Beijing has been promoting it as crucial for reforming state-owned enterprises (SOEs), according to people familiar with Chinas plans.
Beijing would likely lean on cash-rich SOEs like China Life Insurance (601628.SS) and Citic Group Corporation to bail out the largest of the struggling companies, the people said.
They cited China Life stepping in to help China Unicom (0762.HK) raise $12 billion last month.
A limited role for private capital would raise questions about the depth of any overhaul of the SOEs.
China hopes to speed up the reforms in order to meet ambitious economic growth targets and manage its corporate debt burden.
The current model allows winners, companies doing better, to partially own those doing worse, said Alicia Garcia-Herrero, chief Asia Pacific economist at Natixis.
In other words, this is a reshuffling of profit, loss among SOEs to a large extent.
China Life is in talks with China Three Gorges New Energy, a unit of the countrys top hydropower developer, according to sources familiar with the matter.
They said it could also be critical to others in line for so-called mixed ownership, the injection of private capital into state enterprises.
Those companies include China Southern Power Grid, China State Shipbuilding Corp and China Nuclear Engineering & Construction Corporation..

China Life and Citic Group did not respond to requests for comment.
Chinas state-run companies dominate the countrys key industries, from banking to insurance, energy, and telecoms.
They retain an edge over their private rivals in investing both locally and overseas, in part thanks to easier financing.
But they also produce lower returns than their private counterparts and account for the biggest proportion of the bad loans on the books of the countrys banks.
The fund raising by Unicom, a state-owned telecoms group, had sparked hopes for the mixed ownership effort, as outlined in a 2015 government plan.
The partial privatization of Unicom in August, involving 14 investors, including the tech giants Alibaba (BABA.N) and Tencent (0700.HK), was welcomed by markets.
But, as Beijing balanced the need for cash with the need for control, China Life ended up with a 10.6 percent stake in the company, nearly a third of the total sold.
New investors, including China Life, were given three of 15 board seats.
For the SOE reforms to really take off, the ownership of these companies should be truly diversified both in terms of equity holding as well as governance, said a Beijing-based lawyer who works with the National Development and Reform Commission, Chinas top economic planning body, and private companies.
FILE PHOTO: Company logos of China Unicom are displayed at a news conference during the company's announcement of its annual results in Hong Kong, China March 16, 2016.
REUTERS/Bobby Yip/File Photo

That will be difficult to achieve: there is no incentive for private enterprises to invest in most of these state-owned firms, said the lawyer, who declined to be named due to the sensitivity of the issue.
So it will be basically a case of using one SOEs cash balance to try and revive another.
The NDRC and SASAC did not respond to Reuters requests for comment.
CAPITAL RAISING, BY INVITATION

Private capital is still expected to play an increasing role.
Responding to stagnating foreign direct investment and even a possible decline this year, China said last month that it would become more open to international investors - its latest statement about opening up to foreign cash.
FILE PHOTO: A logo on the CITIC Building is pictured next to a construction site in Beijing, China June 23, 2017.
REUTERS/Jason Lee/File Photo

That includes areas like banking, insurance and securities, where foreign ownership limitations have long grated on overseas companies trying to penetrate the China market.
And bankers - with one eye on next months Party Congress - expect the post-October wave of state enterprise reform to be more than just tie-ups.
It could, some said, extend to smaller sales of unwanted, undervalued assets that may be more attractive to private investors, if they are allowed control.
The Party Congress will be a very important inflection point, Wei Sun Christianson, China chief executive and Asia Pacific co-chief executive for Morgan Stanley, said at a conference this month, referring to possible sales or spin-offs in the aftermath.
All of that creates opportunities for investors.
For now, the playing field is favoring the likes of China Life.
China Three Gorges New Energy, its next likely investment, according to the people familiar with the matter, is planning to raise about $1.5 billion from new investors.
Other potential investors in China Three Gorges, the next enterprise to receive outside cash, are also state-backed  and there is tepid interest from private investors in the company, said one of the people who has knowledge of the process.
We will actively participate in the next round of mixed-ownership reforms, China Lifes chairman, Yang Mingsheng, said at an earnings news conference last month.
But while some mixed-ownership candidates hold little appeal for private cash, some private players will be considering more than just returns when they weigh their role in Chinas reform push.
In China, you cant always think about how to make money, said one private investor who joined Unicoms fundraising drive.
You also need to take part in such reforms to show your support for the governments policy.
The logo of Valu, web-based virtual exchange where people can raise bitcoins by 'listing themselves', is seen at their compnay office in Tokyo, Japan July 26, 2017.
REUTERS/Issei Kato

TOKYO (Reuters) - On Japans newest exchange, fame can pay off.
That may not be so great for investors though.
Last month, Hikaru, a Japanese YouTube star so famous he can go by a single stage name, listed himself on Valu, a platform for people to raise money, often for personal projects or businesses, by essentially selling shares in themselves.
Unlike many crowdsourcing sites, which are platforms for people or businesses to raise money online from large groups of individuals, the exchange also allows the trading of those who list their Valus on the exchange.
That means that prices can rise and fall.
And rise and fall Hikaru did.
Soon after listing, Hikaru, whose YouTube channel boasts 2.6 million subscribers, soared on the market as his fans dived in.
But then, just a week after going public, Hikaru and two friends, who go by the stage names Ikkun and Raphael, cashed out, according to officials from the exchange.
That made his Valu drop precipitously, prompting howls of outrage on the Internet.
I was a fan of Hikaru so I bought his Valu partly to support him and this is what happened, said one tweet from someone calling themselves Hikaru Valu Victim.
I want my money back.
Hikaru said in a video that he and his friends had been competing to make the most money off the exchange.
Many people listing on the exchange often cite altruistic aims for doing so - like one person raising funds for a project to encourage young people to move to rural Japan.
But Hikaru has said that he listed on the exchange just to get attention.
He apologized for the move that may have ended his career, but noted that his actions did not constitute wrongdoing under the rules of the exchange.
Those rules just say that members should not post untrue or deceptive information.
There is also nothing illegal about driving up Valus and cashing in, since they are not considered a financial product by the Financial Services Agency.
An official from the watchdog said it had been watching the Valu exchange, but would only advise it to inform investors that listings did not require financial disclosure.
Since the Hikaru debacle, Valu has added restrictions on the frequency of trading to prevent similar occurrences.
Hikaru and his two fellow YouTubers did not respond to requests for comment.
VAZ Inc, a company that represents Japanese YouTubers, including Hikaru and his two friends, said the star and friends made a total profit of about 50 million yen ($444,000) in bitcoins, the currency of the exchange.
Employees work at the company office running Valu, web-based virtual exchange where people can raise bitcoins by 'listing themselves' in Tokyo, Japan July 26, 2017.
REUTERS/Issei Kato

He bought back an unspecified number of Valus in an effort to make amends, he said on Twitter, which VAZ and the exchange confirmed.
But his Valus never recovered their highs.
His shares, which hit a peak of 0.090 bitcoin, or around $387, before he sold out, tanked to as low as 0.0075 bitcoin.
They last stood at 0.014 bitcoin on Friday, or about $50 at the current bitcoin rate.
The exchange declined to comment on how much his supporters lost.
The incident was a rude awakening for Valu, which was launched this summer and has so far attracted about 60,000 members.
Fund raisers sell Valus to the members, who are free to buy and sell their stakes.
Valus operator, a subsidiary of a company called Party Co, makes clear in its rules that listings have no intrinsic value.
Slideshow (3 Images)

There are also no requirements for reporting results, or any other information.
There are no voting rights, or dividends.
That means the sole basis for rising shares is speculation.
What Valus represent is a big question, said Makoto Sakuma, a researcher at NLI Research Institute.
Despite their name, Valus have little economic fundamental value.
Party Co says buying Valus should be seen as a donation or show of support rather than an investment.
Our service can directly support people in any places across the globe, said Kohei Ogawa, president of Valu Inc.

Kenta Toshima, 30, listed himself on the exchange to raise funds for equipment for a project to help rehabilitate elderly people with virtual reality.
He said he had raised about 200,000 yen from about 40 people within a few weeks after listing himself.
The exchanges operators say they will keep going.
But the backlash against Hikaru appears to have taken its toll on the YouTuber.
In early September, Hikaru posted a video in which he appeared with Ikkun and Raphael, and said he would halt his YouTubing activities.
($1 = 112.64 yen)
SAN FRANCISCO/LONDON (Reuters) - Half a million people have signed an online petition in under 24 hours backing Ubers bid to stay on the roads of London, showing the company is turning to its tried-and-tested tactic of asking customers for help when it locks horns with regulators.
Londons transport authorities stunned the powerful U.S. start-up on Friday when they deemed Uber unfit to run a taxi service for safety reasons and stripped it of its license from Sept. 30, although it can operate while it appeals.
The regulator cited failures to report serious criminal offences, conduct sufficient background checks on drivers and other safety issues, threatening the U.S. firms presence in one of the worlds wealthiest cities.
Uber immediately urged users in London to sign a petition that said the city authorities had caved in to a small number of people who want to restrict consumer choice.
By 1400 GMT on Saturday, nearly 540,000 people had signed although it was not clear how many of them were in London.
Uber counted 3.5 million active users in London in the past three months.
Even if many tourists are probably included in the total, the figure represents a potential political force of commuters who face long journeys between their home and offices and who use Uber as a cheaper alternative to other taxi firms.
Turning to users for help is one of the first steps in Ubers playbook.
In Jakarta, Budapest, Toronto and Portland it asked riders to sign petitions and built online tools to contact lawmakers to show their support.
Regulators have at least partly relented in Portland, Toronto and Jakarta, but Budapest remains a work in progress.
Uber now faces a showdown with Londons Mayor Sadiq Khan, who this month said he wouldnt let his teenage daughters use cabs like Uber on their own over fears for their safety.
Khan, a leading figure in Britains opposition Labour Party, said on Saturday he had sympathy with Uber drivers and customers.
But their anger really should be directed at Uber, Khan said in a statement.
They have let down their drivers and customers by failing, in the view of TfL, to act as a fit and proper operator.
But he also suggested that Uber might eventually be allowed to continue operating in London.
I want to be absolutely clear that there is a place in London for all private hire companies that play by the rules, Khan said.
I suspect it will take some time before this situation with Uber fully plays out.
As mayor, Khan is chairman of Transport for London, the regulator which stripped Uber of its license.
Londons decision is the first major challenge for new Uber Chief Executive Dara Khosrowshahi, who took over from co-founder and ex-CEO Travis Kalanick.
He was forced out after internal and external investigations into sexual harassment complaints, the thwarting of government inquiries and potential bribery.
NEW REGIME?
So far, Khosrowshahi has adopted a softer tone to the crisis in London than his predecessor did in similar situations.
Dear London: we (are) far from perfect Khosrowshahi tweeted on Friday.
But he noted that 40,000 drivers and millions of riders were dependent on the service.
Please work with us to make things right.
A photo illustration shows the Uber app on a mobile telephone, as it is held up for a posed photograph in central London, Britain September 22, 2017.
REUTERS/Toby Melville

Khosrowshahi appeared to be following earlier game plans, said Bradley Tusk, an Uber investor who advised on policy in New York City for the company.
A lot of people rely on it, so theres going to be a lot of fertile ground to mobilise, Tusk said.
If real people are angry, its a lot harder for regulators.
But while Uber has been ready to make campaigns personal in the past, Khosrowshahi may take a more moderate tone.
In New York City, Austin, Texas and Washington, D.C., Uber hired political ad agencies and consultants and blasted political leaders for supporting measures that could eliminate jobs and worsen traffic.
During a stand-off in New York City in 2015, Uber named a mock feature on its app after the citys mayor, Bill de Blasio, and used it to warn that a regulatory proposal he backed could increase waits for rides.
Kalanick issued tweets criticizing opponents, including an all-capitalized message saying WATCH THIS!
which linked to a video that suggested the mayor was obstructing social progress.
Slideshow (2 Images)

They have a lot more scrutiny on them now, said Reed Galen, a political consultant who worked with Uber on a campaign in Austin.
Going with the old idea of punching the local leader in the nose, that strategy doesnt work when youve had the issues Uber has had.
Khosrowshahis statements on Friday were an absolutely different take, Galen said.
In an internal email seen by Reuters, Khosrowshahi said there was a high cost to having a bad reputation.
He described it as critical that employees act with integrity in everything we do, and learn how to be a better partner to every city we operate in.
WAITING GAME

For a company known for the speed of its growth, Uber has shown patience when needed.
It has long treated tussles with government as inevitable challenges, but ones it sees as temporary setbacks.
Uber has suspended its services for months in some markets, including Alaska and Texas.
But its been able to return within a year or two in most cases by working out new rules or turning to higher authorities such as courts and state governments.
The efforts have a cost.
Uber and rival Lyft Inc together spent more than $10 million on a failed ballot-box campaign in Austin and millions more on lobbying elsewhere in Texas.
Uber continues to engage in a cat-and-mouse game with city officials in many of the 600 plus cities in which it operates.
It suspended services in July in Finland but plans to re-enter Helsinki next year after a law was passed de-regulating taxi services.
Whether Uber continues such tactics is unclear.
But Tusk said Uber was probably already in touch with members of Britains parliament.
In a sign of early political opposition to Londons move, Greg Hands, the minister for London in the Conservative government, hit out at what he called a blanket ban on Uber.
At the flick of a pen Sadiq Khan is threatening to put 40,000 people out of work and leave 3.5 million users of Uber stranded, Hands tweeted late on Friday.
Once again the actions of Labour leave ordinary working people (to) pay the price for it.
President Trump this weekend attacked the National Football League and its players who protest during the national anthem.
Many of the league's owners, executives and team presidents fired back, after the league's commissioner issued a statement on Saturday.
NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell

The NFL and our players are at our best when we help create a sense of unity in our country and our culture.
There is no better example than the amazing response from our clubs and players to the terrible natural disasters we've experienced over the last month.
Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL, our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities.
Atlanta Falcons

Owner Arthur Blank

We are at our very best when we are working together, building unity and including everyone's voice in a constructive dialogue.
Creating division or demonizing viewpoints that are different than our own accomplishes nothing positive and undermines our collective ability to achieve the ideals of our democracy.
Related: NFL owners are not happy with Trump's rhetoric

Baltimore Ravens

Owner Steve Bisciotti

We recognize our players' influence.
We respect their demonstration and support them 100 percent.
All voices need to be heard.
That's democracy in its highest form.
Buffalo Bills

Owners Terry and Kim Pegula

President Trump's remarks were divisive and disrespectful to the entire NFL community, but we tried to use them as an opportunity to further unify our team and our organization.
Our players have the freedom to express themselves in a respectful and thoughtful manner and we all agreed that our sole message is to provide and to promote an environment that is focused on love and equality.
Related: Under Armour sticks up for 'athletes' and 'flag'

Chicago Bears

Chairman George McCaskey

What makes this the the greatest country in the world are the liberties it was founded upon and the freedom to express oneself in a respectful and peaceful manner.
Through important dialogue with our players and team, this divisive political situation has unified our franchise for the present and the future.
Cleveland Browns

Owners Dee and Jimmy Haslam

We must not let misguided, uninformed and divisive comments from the president or anyone else deter us from our efforts to unify.
Our stance in support of the liberties of peaceful, personal expression afforded to our players and all Americans will remain strong, and we will continue to encourage our players to respectfully use their earned platform to inspire positive change in our nation and throughout society.
Denver Broncos

Chairman and CEO Joe Ellis

Our players have shown a tremendous commitment to raising awareness for important societal issues by using their platform in a positive way ... As an organization, we could not be more proud, appreciative and grateful for our players.
We'll continue to support them and work together to advocate for values of respect, diversity and inclusion.
Detroit Lions

Owner and chairwoman Martha Firestone Ford

Our game has long provided a powerful platform for dialogue and positive change in many communities throughout our nation.
Thanks primarily to our players, the NFL also has been a unifying force in our country and impactful change has and hopefully will continue to be the result of peaceful expression, done so in order to highlight social injustices of all kind.
Negative and disrespectful comments suggesting otherwise are contrary to the founding principles of our country, and we do not support those comments or opinions.
Green Bay Packers

President and CEO Mark Murphy

It's unfortunate that the president decided to use his immense platform to make divisive and offensive statements about our players and the NFL.
We strongly believe that players are leaders in our communities and positive influences ... We believe it is important to support any of our players who choose to peacefully express themselves with the hope of change for good.
As Americans, we are fortunate to be able to speak openly and freely.
Related: How Trump tried to divide NFL and its players

Houston Texans

Founder, chairman and CEO Robert McNair

The comments made by the president were divisive and counterproductive to what our country needs right now.
I hope the reaction from our players results in positive action for our league, our communities and our country as a whole to make a positive difference in our society,

Indianapolis Colts

Owner Jim Irsay

I am troubled by the president's recent comments about our league and our players.
Sports in America have the unique ability to bring people from all walks of life and from different points of view together to work toward or root for a common goal, and the Indianapolis Colts are proud to be a part of that tradition in our home city and state.
Jacksonville Jaguars

Owner Shad Khan

It was a privilege to stand on the sidelines with the Jacksonville Jaguars today for the playing of the U.S. national anthem at Wembley Stadium.
I met with our team captains prior to the game to express my support for them, all NFL players and the league following the divisive and contentious remarks made by President Trump, and was honored to be arm in arm with them, their teammates and our coaches during our anthem ... We have a lot of work to do, and we can do it, but the comments by the president make it harder.
That's why it was important for us, and personally for me, to show the world that even if we may differ at times, we can and should be united in the effort to become better as people and a nation.
Los Angeles Chargers

Chairman Dean Spanos

I wholeheartedly agree with the commissioner's statement.
The NFL and its players, more than anything, have been a force for good.
What our country needs right now is a message of unity, civility and mutual respect.
Los Angeles Rams

Owner and Chairman Stan Kroenke

We believe in the tenets of the national anthem, which is a pillar of this country; just as freedom of speech is another pillar and a constitutional right.
We will continue to support our players' freedom to peacefully express themselves and the meaningful efforts they make to bring about positive change in our country.
Miami Dolphins

Owner Stephen Ross

Our country needs unifying leadership right now, not more divisiveness.
We need to seek to understand each other and have civil discourse instead of condemnation and sound bites.
I know our players who kneeled for the anthem and these are smart young men of character who want to make our world a better place for everyone.
They wanted to start a conversation and are making a difference in our community, including working with law enforcement to bring people together.
We all can benefit from learning, listening and respecting each other.
Minnesota Vikings

Owners Zygi and Mark Wilf

As owners, it is our job to foster an environment that recognizes and appreciates diversity of thought and encourages using this platform in a constructive manner.
Rather than make divisive statements, we believe in promoting thoughtful, inspiring conversation that unifies our communities.
We are proud of our players, coaches and staff for the important role they play in our community, and we fully support their constitutional right to respectfully and peacefully express their beliefs.
New England Patriots

Chairman and CEO Robert Kraft

I am deeply disappointed by the tone of the comments made by the president on Friday.
There is no greater unifier in this country than sports, and unfortunately, nothing more divisive than politics.
I think our political leaders could learn a lot from the lessons of teamwork and the importance of working together toward a common goal.
Our players are intelligent, thoughtful and care deeply about our community and I support their right to peacefully affect social change and raise awareness in a manner that they feel is most impactful.
New Orleans Saints

This statement was released jointly with with the Pelicans, the city's NBA team.
Our organization takes great pride in equality and inclusion and find the comments by the President disappointing and inappropriate relative to our players on this issue.
... Our players and our organization serve the New Orleans community selflessly and do so without care of race, creed or sexual orientation and that makes us a better city and a better team.
We believe strongly in honoring our flag and the national anthem and what it represents and we support our players.
We all must strive to show that we are all Americans and continue to work towards equality for all.
New York Giants

Owners John Mara and Steve Tisch

Comments like we heard last night from the president are inappropriate, offensive and divisive.
We are proud of our players, the vast majority of whom use their NFL platform to make a positive difference in our society.
New York Jets

Chairman and CEO Christopher Johnson

It was an honor and a privilege to stand arm-in-arm unified with our players during today's national anthem.
We are very proud of our players and their strong commitment to work in our community to make a positive, constructive, and unifying impact.
Philadelphia Eagles

Owner, chairman and CEO Jeffrey Lurie

The best of us lend our compassion and determination to the aid of others.
Every day I see the genuine dedication and hard work of our players.
And I support them as they take their courage, character and commitment into our communities to make them better or to call attention to injustice.
Having spoken with our players, I can attest to the great respect they have for the national anthem and all it represents.
We at the Philadelphia Eagles firmly believe that in this difficult time of division and conflict, it is more important than ever for football to be a great unifier.
Tennessee Titans

Owner Amy Adams Strunk

I am proud to stand with our players and support them in their work on and off the football field.
I completely agree with Commissioner Goodell that we are better off as a nation when we are unified and pulling together.
... Our players make public contributions day-in and day-out and when I hear anyone making disparaging remarks about them, I know it has to be the result of not knowing what they bring to our communities or what they have accomplished.
San Francisco 49ers

CEO Jed York

The callous and offensive comments made by the president are contradictory to what this great country stands for.
Our players have exercised their rights as United States citizens in order to spark conversation and action to address social injustice.
We will continue to support them in their peaceful pursuit of positive change in our country and around the world.
Seattle Seahawks

President Peter McLoughlin

We fully support our players' use of their freedom of speech and peaceful action to highlight the existing racial and other divides in our country.
Our players completely respect the military and veterans of our country; however they believe these issues need to come to the forefront.
Tampa Bay Buccaneers

Co-Chairman Joel Glazer

The Buccaneers recognize every individual's constitutional right to freedom of speech, which is crucial to the American way of life that we cherish.
We are equally committed to the principles of inclusivity and respect differing points of view that should be afforded to all Americans.
--CNN's David Close and Thomas Quand contributed to this report.
ESPN confronted the politics of Trump and race head-on Sunday.
The network began its pregame show "Sunday NFL Countdown" with a discussion about President Trump's incendiary rhetoric about NFL players who protest during the national anthem.
One of the show's regulars, former head coach Rex Ryan, said he supported Trump and introduced him at a campaign event.
But he was visibly angry when talking about the president's comments.
"I never signed up for that," Ryan said.
"I never wanted that.
That doesn't mean I support 100% of the things that he says and clearly this is a case."
The protests were started last season by Colin Kaepernick, who dropped to one knee during the national anthem before games to protest the treatment of African Americans, especially by police.
In a speech on Friday night, and then in a series of tweets, Trump has said the NFL should fire any player who protests during the national anthem.
Team owners and players have responded by condemning Trump.
Many players vowed to protest on Sunday.
Related: Trump's strange history with pro football

Ryan said he had gained a new perspective on the protests.
"I looked at it from a different standpoint.
I looked at it from all the men and women who stood for our country," Ryan said.
"I was wrong when I looked at it initially.
Now this year, I look at it as it's a far, far greater thing than just that."
He said he now recognizes "the greater picture of it."
Former NFL player Charles Woodson added that it's "unbelievable that after nearly 400 years of slavery, we're still going through this.
Still.
And not just from anybody" but from the president.
Show host Sam Ponder pointed out that Kaepernick has not been signed by any NFL team to play this season.
"He's still at home watching these games on TV," she said.
"We can hope that people don't shy away from the conversation."
Former wide receiver Anquan Boldin said that "there's a misconception about the kneeling.
We're protesting inequality.
We're also standing for slain police officers."
He said "we all recognize that we live in a great country, but that doesn't mean that it doesn't need to be worked on."
"It's unfortunate that it's taken this to see where guys are coming from."
Former quarterback Matt Hasselbeck, who is white, also said his perspective had been affected.
He said he used to view the anthem from the perspective of military veterans but had started to see it from the side of African Americans.
"I don't know what it's like to be Randy Moss at 17 years old," he said, referring to a fellow member of the show.
"That's kind of what has changed for me this year."
Moss, who is African-American, said he appreciated Hasselbeck's comments.
At one point, he leaned over to shake Hasselbeck's hand, calling him "brother."
Related: With 'son of a bitch' comments, Trump tried to divide NFL and its players

Earlier this month, ESPN was in the middle of a political firestorm after anchor Jemele Hill tweeted that "Donald Trump is a white supremacist who has largely surrounded himself w/ other white supremacists."
Conservative media outlets, including Fox News, accused ESPN of political bias.
Trump jumped in to trash talk ESPN on Twitter.
After several days of headlines, ESPN President John Skipper sent an internal memo reminding his staff to focus on journalism and not politics.
An ESPN spokesperson said Sunday morning's pregame discussion was on point with the network's mission.
"If you read Skipper's note he said we would -- as we always have, really -- cover the intersection of sports and politics," the spokesperson said.
ESPN abandoned its usual pregame chatter in favor of a long and heavy conversation about unity, politics and President Trump.
Fox and CBS said they would broadcast the national anthem live -- a notable shift away from the usual practice.
Make no mistake: Sports TV became political on Sunday in a whole new way.
It would have been nearly impossible for sports broadcasters to ignore the story.
Trump kicked off a firestorm two days ago when he criticized the National Football League and attacked athletes who kneel during the national anthem to draw attention to social justice issues.
"Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out, he's fired.
He's fired,'" Trump told a crowd in Alabama on Friday.
Related: NFL airing unity ad in prime time on Sunday

It's not a new issue.
Quarterback Colin Kaepernick refused to stand last year when he played for the San Francisco 49ers -- a show of protest against racial injustice.
But Trump's decision to wade into the fray now didn't just renew interest in the matter.
His remarks also undeniably drove the tone of sports coverage on Sunday.
To start, the "Star Spangled Banner" typically isn't covered apart from the Super Bowl and other major events.
But both Fox and CBS, which will begin airing NFL games at 1 p.m., said Sunday they will air the anthem live -- a notable shift.
ESPN also said it will air the anthem live for "Monday Night Football."
Yahoo Sports did exactly that while broadcasting the day's first game between the Jacksonville Jaguars and the Baltimore Ravens in London.
The cameras were focused on players of both teams who kneeled along with Jaguars owner Shahid Khan and former Ravens all-star Ray Lewis.
Lewis was recently signed by Fox Sports as an NFL analyst.
Related: With 'son of a bitch' comments, Trump tried to divide NFL and its players

Trump was also the main focus of conversation during pregame shows on ESPN and Fox.
ESPN's "Sunday NFL Countdown" show spent its first 22 minutes exclusively on the president -- a significant decision for a network that insists it is not a "political organization," despite tangling with Trump in recent weeks.
"We do like to stick to sports around here.
That's why we all got into this.
We love sports," said host Sam Ponder.
"But before we do that, we've got to talk about the biggest news in the NFL today, and it is inherently political because it involves the President of the United States."
Former head coach Rex Ryan was strikingly candid on the show.
Ryan, who voted for Trump and introduced him at a campaign event, said he was angered by Trump's comments.
"I never signed up for that," Ryan said.
"I never wanted that.
That doesn't mean I support 100% of the things that he says and clearly this is a case."
An hour later, Fox's pregame coverage followed.
"The athletes of this country, we're looked up to, OK?"
said Tony Gonzalez, former NFL tight end, on the network's pregame show.
"There's kids that are watching.
Whatever the president, his point that he was trying to get across there, it's going to backfire on him.
And all you did was just bring everybody together from the sports world."
--CNNMoney's Jackie Wattles contributed to this story.
With President Trump taking aim at the NFL and its players who protest during the national anthem, the league is broadcasting a message of unity.
The NFL is dusting off a one-minute ad that it produced for the Super Bowl earlier this year.
It was originally made to "demonstrate the power of football to bring people together," the league said.
So the NFL is going to run the ad again on NBC's "Sunday Night Football" telecast on Sunday.
The decision was finalized on Sunday morning.
"We think this is the single best response to demonstrate what we are about," an NFL spokesman told CNN.
"It stands in stark contrast to some who practice the politics of division."
The idea is to take the high road -- avoiding any direct reference to Trump -- by airing an inspirational message.
Inside these lines, we can bring out the best in each other and live united.
pic.twitter.com/nQpUrKFL4T  NFL (@NFL) September 24, 2017

The ad was titled "Inside These Lines."
It was created by the ad agency Translation for Super Bowl LI.
Forest Whitaker was the narrator.
In the ad, Whitaker says:

"Inside these lines, we don't have to come from the same place to help each other reach the same destination.
Inside these lines, we may have our differences, but recognize there's more that unites us.
Inside these lines, it's a game of inches, and there's no such thing as an easy yard when you're fighting to move forward.
Inside these lines, we're not only defined by our victories, but by the way we handle our defeats.
Inside these lines, we can bring out the best in each other,

And live united--

Inside these lines."
Facebook continues to resist calls for public disclosure of the Russia-linked ads that targeted American voters last year.
But Senator Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate intelligence committee, is still pushing.
"We want to try to find a way," he said, "to make some of those ads and other information public."
Facebook provided data about the pro-Trump propaganda to special counsel Robert Mueller's team after Mueller obtained a search warrant earlier this month.
At first Facebook declined to provide the data to Congressional investigators, but on Thursday the company reversed itself.
"We've not received any of their information yet.
They will disclose that to us next week," Warner said in an interview with CNN on Saturday.
"We're going to try to work with them on how we can get that information then out to the public," he said.
Speaking on CNN's "Reliable Sources," Warner said he wants both Facebook (FB, Tech30) and Twitter (TWTR, Tech30) executives to come in for a public hearing about the matter.
How Facebook sees the Russian ad scandal

Campaign ads on Facebook and other social networking sites currently face none of the disclosure requirements that TV and radio ads do.
Warner is working with fellow Democratic senator Amy Klobuchar to seek co-sponsors for a bill that would change that.
"Every American wants to know that the political advertising they're seeing or viewing, whether it's on television or on their iPhone, that they know, one, it's not coming from a foreign nation or foreign agents, and two, they ought to be able to see the content, even if it's not directly focused on them," Warner said.
He was referring to the idea of "dark posts" on Facebook and other web sites, when advertisers target specific audiences and hide the ads from everyone else.
"If you're for or against a candidate, or for or against a cause, you ought to be able to see the content that's being launched against you, particularly if it comes from a foreign source," Warner said.
Facebook said on Thursday that it will voluntarily implement disclosure features for "political" ads.
There are big and unanswered questions about how Facebook will define political ads versus other kinds.
Related: Is it enough?
Not content with voluntary action by Facebook, Warner wants legislation that will be enforceable and will apply to other web sites as well.
Speaking the language of Silicon Valley, Warner said he views the legislation as "an iterative process."
When pressed about whether Congress should seek to restrict, not just regulate, political ads on the web, Warner demurred, saying "I want to start with the lightest touch possible."
So far Warner has no Republican co-sponsors, but he said he believes he'll get there.
"In 2016, the Russians tried to help Mr. Trump.
But the Russians are not pro-Republican or pro-Democrat," he said.
"I strongly believe there will be an awful lot of Republican support" for the bill.
In the interview, Warner did not limit his criticism to Facebook.
In the run-up to election day, he admitted, there was not a full understanding of Russian attempts to meddle in the election.
The intelligence community" did not "fully connect all the dots, unfortunately, until after the election," he said.
Facebook, too, was slow to recognize it.
"Ten months ago Facebook was saying, 'Hey, that's crazy, there was no Russian interference, there was no Russian involvement.'
What we've seen now is that there was dramatic Russian involvement," Warner said, "both in terms of paid advertising, as well as these so-called fake accounts, and we still don't know the total number of fake accounts.
I don't think we know the full extent of Russian advertising."
Germany's election: Angela Merkel is set to win a fourth term as German Chancellor.
She went against Martin Schulz of the Social Democratic Party in Sunday's election.
Merkel, 63, has led the European Union's largest economy for more than 11 years.
Germans voted for seats in the Bundestag, the country's parliament.
Final results are due on Monday, when the business of putting together a coalition government is expected to begin in earnest.
Whichever party wins the most seats will form a government, and the leader of that party will then become chancellor.
The new government will be in place when the Parliament reconvenes on October 24.
A win for Merkel could mean bad news for German automakers.
She's become a tough critic of the industry, which is still reeling from the Volkswagen emissions scandal.
NAFTA talks, Round 3: The renegotiation of NAFTA, the trade deal between the U.S., Canada and Mexico that President Trump promised to blow up, is continuing.
Little if any visible progress has been made so far on key issues, such as car manufacturing.
The third round of talks began on Saturday in Ottawa and run through Wednesday.
All sides are signaling that they plan to bring a heavier hand this time.
One highlight: American officials are expected to propose a controversial new "sunset clause" to NAFTA, which means the agreement would expire after five years unless all countries decide to sign on for another five years.
"It would force a systematic reexamination" of NAFTA, Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said at an event hosted by Politico on September 14.
Critics say it would cause widespread uncertainty in the business community.
Brexit talks, Round 4: Britain and the European Union will take another stab at Brexit negotiations on Monday.
Both parties still need to sort out the rights of millions of migrants, trade terms and the size of the divorce bill Britain will pay the EU.
Earlier this month, British Parliament voted in favor of a bill that ensures European laws won't apply to the United Kingdom once Brexit is completed in 2019.
The vote was a victory for Prime Minister Theresa May, who has been under mounting pressure to unite her government.
The week ahead in Washington: It was supposed to be (another) pivotal moment in the Republicans' attempts to replace Obamacare.
That was until Senator John McCain said he wouldn't support the latest bill, known as Graham-Cassidy.
Tax reform remains on the docket this week.
Republicans may release a framework of their plan to cut taxes.
How much detail is not clear.
Earnings: Nike is set to report quarterly financial results on Tuesday.
Nike (NKE) faces stiff competition from Adidas, which last week became the second best seller of American footwear.
The owner of Olive Garden is also reporting earnings on Tuesday.
Darden Restaurants (DRI) enjoyed a jump in sales when it reported earnings last quarter.
This time around, investors are expecting to see sales of around $1.9 billion.
Coming this week:

Monday -- Fourth round of Brexit talks; Time and Fortune's CEO leadership conference

Tuesday -- Nike (NKE) and Darden (DRI) earnings

Thursday -- Report on U.S. gross domestic product for second quarter

Friday -- Twitter (TWTR, Tech30) meets with Senate Intelligence Committee; New data due on Brazil's struggling economy
The business moguls who control the NFL are siding with their players over President Trump.
The president kicked up a furor on Friday when he lashed out at players who kneel during the national anthem to draw attention to social justice issues.
Trump told a crowd in Alabama that the league's owners should respond to the players by saying, "Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, he's fired.
He's fired!"
The remarks have spurred backlash from many corners, and they've pitted Trump against some of the powerful businessmen who control the league.
Miami Dolphins owner Stephen Ross issued a statement criticizing the president's words.
"Our country needs unifying leadership right now, not more divisiveness," he said.
"We need to seek to understand each other and have civil discourse instead of condemnation and sound bites."
Ross, a billionaire New York real estate developer, also defended the Dolphins players who have kneeled during the anthem.
Related: Under Armour says it backs 'athletes' and 'flag' after divisive Trump remarks

"These are smart young men of character who want to make our world a better place for everyone," Ross said.
"They wanted to start a conversation and are making a difference in our community."
New York Giants owners John Mara and Steve Tisch also pushed back against Trump.
"Comments like we heard last night from the president are inappropriate, offensive and divisive," the statement reads.
"We are proud of our players, the vast majority of whom use their NFL platform to make a positive difference in our society."
By Saturday evening, Falcon's owner Arthur Blank and 49ers CEO Jed York had weighed in as well.
"We are at our very best when we are working together, building unity and including everyone's voice in a constructive dialogue," Blank said.
"Creating division or demonizing viewpoints that are different than our own accomplishes nothing positive and undermines our collective ability to achieve the ideals of our democracy."
York called Trump's comments "callous and offensive."
"Our players have exercised their rights as United States citizens in order to spark conversation and action to address social injustice," he said.
"We will continue to support them in their peaceful pursuit of positive change in our country and around the world."
Mark Murphy, former NFL player and current CEO of the Green Bay Packers, also described Trump's comments as "offensive."
"It's unfortunate that the President decided to use his immense platform to make divisive and offensive statements about our players and the NFL," he said in a statement.
"We believe it is important to support any of our players who choose to peacefully express themselves with the hope of change for good.
As Americans, we are fortunate to be able to speak openly and freely."
The chairman of the Los Angeles Chargers, Dean Spanos, said that NFL players "have been a force for good."
Spanos said he agreed with a statement issue earlier in the day by the league's commissioner, Roger Goodell.
Goodell slammed Trump.
"Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL, our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities," he said.
When President Trump lashed out at players who kneel during the national anthem, he took aim at an organization that he's clashed with on multiple occasions.
On Friday, Trump said during a rally in Alabama that NFL owners should fire players who protest during the national anthem.
The comments prompted players, league officials and team owners to admonish his statements.
Here's a look back at some of the other times Trump has tangled with the pro-football league.
Trump's NFL competitor

Back in 1983, the upstart United States Football League, or the USFL, was gaining traction.
It debuted as a springtime version of the NFL to approving fans and promising ratings.
The league even counted a few Heisman Trophy winners among its players.
Trump's skin in the game: He owned one of the USFL's teams, the New Jersey Generals.
The real estate mogul was a vocal leader who pushed other team owners to move the USFL to a fall schedule and compete head-to-head with the NFL.
He eventually got his way, but it turned out to be disastrous.
The USFL ended up suing the NFL, accusing the league of holding an illegal monopoly on fall football and attempting to strangle the USFL out of business.
Despite winning a court battle, the USFL was awarded just $3 and the league was shuttered in 1986 after just three seasons, according to an archived report from the Los Angeles Times.
Trump is widely considered to be the guy who lead the USFL to its demise.
He "destroyed" the league, screams the headline of a piece published by Esquire.
'The beginning of the end' for the NFL

Fast forward to a new era in which Trump has a Twitter account, and he began using it to lash out at the NFL.
In criticizing a rule change aimed at making the game safer for players, Trump declared in a 2013 post that it was "the beginning of the end" for the NFL.
"The NFL has just barred ball carriers from using helmet as contact.
What is happening to the sport?"
he wrote.
The NFL has just barred ball carriers from using helmet as contact.
What is happening to the sport?
The beginning of the end.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 20, 2013

He also aired complaints about referees "destroying" the game by "slowing down the fun."
Bidding for the Bills

Yet, Trump's distaste for the way the NFL was being run didn't appear to quash his interest in buying an NFL team.
In 2014, the sports world buzzed when Trump put in a bid to buy the Buffalo Bills -- and he lost.
"I bid a billion dollars, all cash on the table.
[business magnate Terrence Pegula] bought it for a billion-two, I believe, although they say it was a billion-four.
I think he got it for a billiontwo," Trump told Sports Illustrated.
The loss sparked another twitter tirade.
Even though I refused to pay a ridiculous price for the Buffalo Bills, I would have produced a winner.
Now that won't happen.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 13, 2014

Trump insisted, "I would have produced a winner.
Now that won't happen."
Prime time conflict

Finally, during the 2016 presidential election, Trump entered into an awkward fray with the NFL over some facts.
General election presidential debates were slated to take place at the same time as football games.
"I'll tell you what I don't like.
It's against two NFL games.
I got a letter from the NFL saying, 'This is ridiculous,'" Trump claimed.
An NFL spokesman said that never happened.
"While we'd obviously wish the debate commission could find another night, we did not send a letter to Trump," the league said in a statement.
Correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly reported that last year's controversy involved Republican debates.
In fact, they were general election debates.
The view from the ground after a devastating hurricane is heartbreaking.
The view from the sky is more revealing.
Unmanned aircraft  small and large  swooped in during the aftermath of Hurricanes Irma and Harvey to get a glimpse of the devastation.
That's why insurance companies have been using drone technology more than ever before to quickly -- and safely -- assess damage from the storm.
It's only been fairly recently that commercial drone technology has advanced enough to take on this task on a large economic scale.
And the insurance industry is just beginning to fully embrace it.
"I think we can say there's an unprecedented number of insurance companies using an unprecedented number of drones to service more and policyholders," said Tom Karol, general counsel for the National Association of Mutual Insurance Companies.
It's difficult to know exactly how many are hovering over storm torn areas because no agency tracks drone flights.
Most of the drones in the sky are light-weight, quad-copter drones outfitted with cameras that can send images back to insurance professionals -- some in real time.
For major U.S. insurers, the technology is a game-changer.
Allstate said it launched permanent drone damage inspection programs last spring in four states: Texas, Oklahoma, New Mexico and Colorado.
"These are not things that people were using for disasters five or 10 years ago," said Jesse Kallman, president of Airbus Aerial, the commercial satellite and unmanned aircraft arm of Airbus.
Using drones benefits insurers and policyholders by saving time while maintaining safety for adjusters and inspectors.
Without drones, adjusters can inspect about three homes a day in a flood zone like Houston.
With drones that number jumps to 10 or more.
"Every house is different," said Herndon.
Drone's aren't just for insurers, either.
Communications companies like Verizon and power companies like Florida Light and Power have used drones to inspect equipment.
It's a sign pointing to America's exploding drone industry, powered by skyrocketing numbers of commercial drone pilots.
More than 59,000 of the US certificates that are required to pilot drones commercially have been granted since the government started issuing them last year, according to the Federal Aviation Administration.
To be sure, there's a downside to all this drone activity, especially in disaster areas.
Air space can get crowded with search and rescue operations and humanitarian efforts that fly planes and helicopters.
The FAA will put out guidance and post flight restrictions.
Commercial pilots are encouraged to check on any flight restrictions imposed by the FAA before sending up a craft.
At least one drone flying above the wreckage of Irma goes far beyond what's commercially available.
A giant Predator drone -- the kind used by the military -- for the first time employed a sophisticated radar system to inspect bridges, overpasses, towers and other critical infrastructure at the request of Florida government officials and the Federal Emergency Management Administration.
US Customs and Border Protection  which typically uses giant unmanned airplanes called MQ-9 Predator Bs to find people illegally crossing the border into the US  flew the Predator from its base in Texas to Florida to help with Irma.
"This is the first time [CPB Air and marine Operations] has flown the MQ-9 Predator B equipped with Vehicle and Dismount Exploitation Radar or VADER, in response to state or federal emergencies," the agency said.
Here's how they used the radar: Before Irma hit, the CBP flew a Predator between 18,000-20,000 feet above the Florida Keys, Naples, Tampa and Jacksonville to capture radar images of infrastructure.
Then, after Irma passed, the Predator flew over those same locations, to gather imagery for comparison.
Thanks to a satellite link, CBP pilots flew the Predator remotely from a 24-by-8 foot "cockpit" located more than 1,000 miles across the Gulf of Mexico at Naval Air Station Corpus Christi.
The radar imagery was shared with emergency officials to assess damage.
State and federal officials used it to determine if specific bridges, highways and other structures were safe to re-open.
"The radar technology that we have today has improved greatly over just the past few years," said Erik Soykan, executive director of air security operations for air and marine operations at CBP.
All of this is representative of how unmanned aircraft technology is poised to become more engrained in American life.
In the coming months, Karol said, drone operators will likely be taking a closer look at how their aircraft performed in the wake of the storm and figuring out how to improve when the respond to future hurricanes.
As President Trump picked fights with the sports world, Under Armour drew attention to itself with how it responded.
After Trump uninvited Under Armour (UA) endorser Stephen Curry to the White House and lashed out at some NFL players, the sportswear brand tweeted Saturday that it "stands by our Athletes for free speech, expression and a unified America."
But the company later deleted that tweet and replaced it with one that adds the word "flag."
"@UnderArmour stands for the flag and by our Athletes for free speech, expression and a unified America," the updated tweet reads.
Many social media users were unimpressed.
Comments flooded in, calling it "weak" and a stance on "nothing."
Others poked fun at the company for attempting to "ride the fence" instead of picking sides.
Under Armour did not respond to a request for comment Saturday.
The company's tweets were posted just hours after President Trump said he would rescind a White House invitation for Curry, the Golden State Warriors's superstar player.
"Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team.
Stephen Curry is hesitating, therefore invitation is withdrawn!"
Trump tweeted after learning that Curry told reporters he didn't "want to go" to the White House ceremony commending the Warriors's NBC championship title.
Curry, one of the best shooters in NBA history, has been considered a major boon for Under Armour.
His signature line of footwear has helped boost sales of Under Armour basketball sneakers

But the relationship between Curry and Under Armour appeared strained earlier this year thanks to Trump's presidency.
Related: Slam dunk for Adidas as sales top Nike's Jordan line

Under Armour CEO Kevin Plank in February called Trump a "real asset" to the U.S. during an interview with CNBC.
When asked about the comment, Curry told The Mercury News, "I agree with that description if you remove the 'et' from asset."
Curry said he contacted the company to voice his opposition to Plank's comments.
"I spent all day yesterday on the phone," Curry said.
"With countless people at Under Armour, countless people in Kevin Plank's camp, my team, trying to understand what was going on and where everybody stood on the issue."
Under Armour later released a statement, saying it engages in "policy, not politics."
The company also clarified its stance on some of Trump's most controversial policies, saying it advocates for free trade and inclusive immigration policy.
Related: With 'son of a bitch' comments, Trump tried to divide NFL and its players

Since then, Plank has gone even further to distance himself from the president.
He was among the CEOs that stepped down from the president's American Manufacturing Council in August to protest the president's response to violence in Charlottesville, Virginia.
A rally attended by neo-Nazis and white nationalists left one counter-protester dead.
Trump's widely criticized remarks included assertions that there was violence on "many sides" and there were "fine people" among the demonstrators.
Under Armour's tweet on Saturday also followed a face-off between Trump and the National Football League.
Trump said Friday at a rally in Alabama that NFL players that kneel during the national anthem are "ruining the game" and should be fired.
NFL Commissioner Roger Goddell shot back: "Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL, our great game and all of our players."
--CNNMoney's Ivana Kottasova and Ahiza Garcia contributed to this report.
This story has been updated with Under Armour's latest tweet.
No more Mr. Nice Guys.
That's the tone heading into Round 3 of the renegotiation of NAFTA, the trade deal between the U.S., Canada and Mexico.
Talks kickoff Saturday in Ottawa, Canada, and all sides have signaled plans to bring a heavier hand to the negotiations, which have yet to produce much progress on key issues.
American officials have proposed a deeply controversial audit rule.
Canadian officials want to resolve a thorny aerospace issue.
And Mexican leaders continue to prepare a "plan B" by looking overseas for new trade deals.
Related: Mexico looks to Latin America amid Trump's NAFTA threats

Here's what to look out for:

"Sunset clause"

Trump's trade team is expected to propose a "sunset clause" to NAFTA, which means the agreement would expire after five years unless all countries decide to sign on for another five years.
Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross argues that the presidents of the three nations can already withdraw from NAFTA if they give six month's notice.
In 23 years, the provision has never been used.
This new provision would allow leaders to reassess benefits on a timetable, Ross says.
"It would force a systematic reexamination," of NAFTA, Ross said at an event hosted by Politico on September 14.
Critics say it would cause widespread uncertainty in the business community.
"It's probably one of the worst ideas that anyone has ever suggested," says Rick Helfenbein, CEO of the American Apparel and Footwear Association, whose members include Under Armour, Gap and Coach.
"Why would you invest in something that could expire in 5 years?"
Mexican and Canadian officials not directly involved in talks have already pushed back on the idea.
Related: NAFTA talks spark deep divide in American agriculture

Battle for the skies

Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau made it clear this week: He wants a trade spat between airplane manufacturers Boeing (American) and Bombardier (Canadian) resolved.
Boeing sued Bombardier in April, accusing it of unfair trade practices.
Bombardier rejects the accusations.
Trudeau said the Canadian government won't continue to do business with Boeing if it continues to threaten Bombardier.
As Round 3 starts, this dispute could rankle negotiations.
On top of that, Canada wants to address U.S. tariffs on Canadian lumber and dairy products.
Related: NAFTA Round 2: No deal yet on divisive issues

Mexico's back up plans

Mexico may be in danger of losing business with the U.S. and Canada if NAFTA negotiations go south.
So it's doubling down on free trade and turning toward allies in Latin America, who are also changing their own tune on trade.
This year, for the first time, 94% of goods moved tax-free across borders in the Pacific Alliance, a trading bloc that includes Mexico, Colombia, Chile and Peru.
Formed in 2011, it accounts for half of all trade in the region and covers about 200 million people.
"We are trading as a group of countries in agreement on free trade," Mexico's foreign minister, Luis Videgaray, said Wednesday evening in New York.
Videgaray spoke alongside the presidents of Colombia and Chile, as well as a Peru's trade minister.
NAFTA's "scariest part"

At the heart of the reason behind renegotiating is Trump's desire to end the U.S. trade deficit with Mexico and create manufacturing jobs in America.
Trump's trade team wants to focus automobiles and the "rules of origin" rule, which stipulates that at least 62% of the parts in a car sold in North America must come from one of the three NAFTA countries.
But Ross argues 25-year-old rule is out of date for a auto world that includes Bluetooth speakers, back-up cameras and other electronics.
The outdated rule has allowed car parts from outside NAFTA -- mostly from China and Taiwan -- to come in and not get taxed, he said.
He told CNBC Friday that this trend is the "scariest part" of NAFTA.
Ross wants to not only update the rules, but raise that percentage much higher, though how much is unclear.
Forcing more production in North America is one thing.
Forcing more in the U.S. is another, trade experts say.
"I don't think it will go over very well," says Edward Alden, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.
"We're going from the shadow boxing phase in the first rounds of negotiations to really much more serious negotiations."
The Trump presidency is a test.
Institutions like the courts, the news media and the business community have all been tested.
Now it's the NFL and the NBA's turn.
The president is embracing an "us versus them" conflict involving politics, patriotism and popular American pastimes.
And there is an unmistakable racial element at play, since he is targeting prominent black players.
On Friday night, seemingly out of nowhere, President Trump criticized the National Football League broadly and athletes who kneel during the national anthem specifically.
Analysts are now predicting further on-the-field protests at games.
Trump waded into controversy with another league on Saturday morning.
On Twitter he criticized Golden State Warriors star Steph Curry, who intends to skip the traditional NBA champs celebration at the White House.
"Stephen Curry is hesitating,therefore invitation is withdrawn!"
Trump wrote twenty minutes after "Fox & Friends" mentioned the issue.
NBA great LeBron James responded by calling the president a "bum" who misled his followers.
U bum @StephenCurry30 already said he ain't going!
So therefore ain't no invite.
Going to White House was a great honor until you showed up!
LeBron James (@KingJames) September 23, 2017

"U bum @StephenCurry30 already said he ain't going!
So therefore ain't no invite," James tweeted.
"Going to White House was a great honor until you showed up!"
Trump's remarks renewed the accusation made by ESPN anchor Jemele Hill a week ago -- that Trump "is a white supremacist."
CNN's Jake Tapper wryly tweeted on Saturday that Trump is "focusing like a laser on the major problems of the American people: black professional athletes with opinions."
The anthem protests, which began when Colin Kaepernick kneeled during the national anthem last fall, seemed to come up randomly while Trump was rallying an Alabama crowd to support Luther Strange in a primary election.
Trump said NFL owners should get rid of players like that.
"Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out, he's fired.
He's fired,'" Trump said.
"You know, some owner is going to do that.
He's going to say, 'That guy that disrespects our flag, he's fired.'
And that owner, they don't know it [but] they'll be the most popular person in this country."
The president followed up on Twitter Saturday afternoon.
"If a player wants the privilege of making millions of dollars in the NFL,or other leagues, he or she should not be allowed to disrespect.
... our Great American Flag (or Country) and should stand for the National Anthem.
If not, YOU'RE FIRED.
Find something else to do!"
Opponents of Trump accused him of failing to respect the First Amendment rights of Americans.
Trump also said NFL ratings are down "massively" (that's not true -- the ratings are only down modestly) and criticized the NFL's efforts to make the game safer for athletes.
"There's a more important issue about the health of young, American athletes.
And obviously the president wasn't too concerned about that," CNN sports analyst Christine Brennan said after the rally.
The president finished his NFL critique by saying it hurts the game "when people like yourselves turn on television and you see those people taking the knee when they're playing our great national anthem."
In response, Mike Allen of Axios wrote Saturday morning, "To address a largely white crowd as 'people like yourselves,' and refer to protesting athletes, often African American, as 'those people,' does nothing to heal the wounds of Charlottesville."
NFL commissioner Roger Goodell issued an unusual statement about the president's remarks, criticizing the "divisive" comments without calling out Trump by name.
The NFL players union spoke out more forcefully.
And Seattle Seahawks cornerback Richard Sherman, an active Twitter user, responded Saturday morning: "The behavior of the President is unacceptable and needs to be addressed.
If you do not Condemn this divisive Rhetoric you are Condoning it!!"
As if Uber's new CEO didn't already have his work cut out for him, now he has to deal with losing one of the company's biggest markets.
On Friday, London's transport authority said Uber is not "fit and proper" to operate in the city.
The city opted not to renew the company's license -- a decision partly based on some of the damning revelations that surfaced about Uber this year.
Among those revelations: The company used controversial "Greyball" software to prevent regulators and law enforcement from monitoring the app.
Uber said it was never used or considered to be used in the U.K.
Still, London no longer wants to offer the ride-sharing service a license.
Uber said 3.5 million people have used its platform since starting in London in 2012.
It said 40,000 licensed drivers will be affected.
The company has 21 days to appeal the decision.
Uber will turn, in part, to its users to advocate for the brand.
So far, a Change.org petition to keep Uber running in London has earned 266,934 signatures.
"It's a significant decision -- not just because London is a big taxi market but also because it might set a precedent for other cities that are of two minds about Uber," according to Kartik Hosanagar, professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.
Arun Sundararajan, a professor at New York University's Stern School of Business, agreed.
"It's important that this not start some sort of domino effect across the rest of Europe," said Sundararajan.
"It wouldn't surprise me if more cities start to push back heavily because they're trying to preserve their power."
It could also be time for Uber's opponents to advance their own interests in the region.
One thing is for sure: Uber's CEO Dara Khosrowshahi has his fair share of fires to defuse.
Khosrowshahi, formerly head of Expedia, took over the embattled $68 billion company at the end of August.
In addition to now dealing with a crisis in London, Khosrowshahi must manage Uber's escalating court battle with Google's Waymo over allegedly stolen self-driving car technology.
He also faces a Department of Justice investigation into the "Greyball" software.
Not to mention, the company still has a lot of work to do to repair its internal work culture.
"It will be a testament to [Khosrowshahi's] leadership skills, if he can make this problem go away and strike a deal with the London government," added Sundararajan.
"It could be a pivotal moment for Uber."
Related: London says it won't renew Uber's license

In response to the London decision, Uber said it would "immediately challenge this [decision] in the courts."
"Transport for London and the mayor have caved in to a small number of people who want to restrict consumer choice," the company said.
Khosrowshahi weighed in later on Friday, tweeting that Uber is "far from perfect," but he asked that officials work with the company to "make things right."
Dear London: we r far from perfect but we have 40k licensed drivers and 3.5mm Londoners depending on us.
Pls work w/us to make things right  dara khosrowshahi (@dkhos) September 22, 2017

Khosrowshahi expanded on his thoughts in an internal email sent to employees on Friday, which was obtained by CNN Tech.
"The truth is that there is a high cost to a bad reputation," Khosrowshahi wrote.
"Irrespective of whether we did everything that is being said about us in London today (and to be clear, I don't think we did), it really matters what people think of us, especially in a global business like ours, where actions in one part of the world can have serious consequences in another."
Related: Londoners react to 'bombshell' Uber ban

London's decision doesn't bode well for Uber, whose rivals abroad are raising billions in funding and working together to dominate their respective markets.
In July, Uber was forced to pull out of operations in Macau, located off the south coast of China.
Meanwhile, Uber merged with its rival in Russia, Yandex, that same month.
A year ago, Uber sold its business in China to rival Didi Chuxing.
During the appeal of the London decision, Hosanagar believes Uber will likely point to innovations it has rolled out in the past two years to increase safety and security, such as the ability for a rider to share their ride details in real time with a friend.
On the other hand, Hosanagar said, Uber will likely have to defend how it screens and manages its huge fleet of drivers, among other things.
"I suspect the move by London will prompt Uber to take these issues a little more seriously," he said.
Uber, which operates in nearly 700 cities, was last valued at $68 billion.
SoftBank, a Japanese tech giant, is considering an investment in the company.
Experts anticipate Uber's valuation could take a hit from the decision by London officials.
"All indications are that [the recent crises] are putting downward pressure on Uber's ability to sustain or grow their valuation," Sundararajan said.
Disney is warning Altice cable customers that they might lose ESPN and other Disney channels at the end of the month.
Yes, this is the start of another public spat between two big media companies, with customers caught in between.
This fight is especially high-stakes because ESPN is the most expensive channel on the cable dial.
Disney charges cable distributors about $8 per subscriber per month for its highly valuable sports programming.
ESPN's business is under intense pressure, but it is trying to ensure that distributors keep paying.
So this carriage fee fight is going to be very closely watched.
Altice (ATUS), previously known as Cablevision, provides cable TV to several million homes in the New York metropolitan area.
It has been negotiating with Disney in private.
The deadline is September 30.
On Friday evening, Disney decided to go public.
"Our contract with Altice is due to expire soon, so we have a responsibility to make our viewers aware of the potential loss of our programming," the company said.
"We remain fully committed to reaching a deal and are hopeful we can do so.
Our company has never had a disruption of service for our family of networks and there is no reason that should change now."
Along with ESPN, the Disney Channel, Freeform, and ABC's New York station WABC could also be affected.
These public tiffs usually don't result in outright blackouts -- but they do from time to time.
Related: What's going on with the NFL in Los Angeles

Altice responded on Friday night by saying that Disney (DIS) is demanding "hundreds of millions of dollars more in retransmission costs and sports programming fees, among other outrageous anti-consumer demands that impede Altice from offering more flexible video packages for customers."
"Altice USA wants to keep the programming on and is currently in negotiations with ESPN and its owners," the company said.
Disney responded by saying Altice's typical customer "pays $160 or more each month for service to Altice, and the bulk of that money goes into their pocket."
This back-and-forth is likely to continue in the days leading up to the September 30 deadline.
Programming could be blacked out at that time -- if the companies don't reach a new deal or agree to extend negotiations.
Wells Fargo is cutting jobs.
The bank, which continues to reel from a series of scandals, said Friday that it's laying off some positions in Charlotte, North Carolina -- home to one of its corporate headquarters.
The company declined to say how many people would be affected.
Spokesperson Josh Dunn told CNNMoney that Wells Fargo employs about 24,500 people in the Charlotte area.
Dunn said in a statement that cutting jobs is part of the company's ongoing efforts to "become more efficient and effective" and "reduce expenses."
"Wells Fargo is committed to retaining as many of its team members as it can and, where possible, will work to identify other internal opportunities or support displaced team members as they transition outside the company," the statement says.
Related: Wells Fargo CEO faces a grilling from Elizabeth Warren

Wells Fargo did not indicate the layoffs were in any way linked to a series of crises that have plagued the company in recent months.
Most notably, the company continues to suffer the fallout of a massive fake account scandal that first came to light last year.
Recent estimates say the bank created as many as 1.4 million accounts for unsuspecting customers in order to boost its sales figures.
Wells Fargo has blamed draconian sales targets and poor oversight.
Its recovery efforts have included installing new corporate leadership and firing about 5,300 employees who Wells Fargo said were involved in creating fake accounts.
The bank's headaches were made worse when it admitted to forcing about 570,000 of its customers to sign up for auto insurance that they didn't need.
Wells Fargo has also been accused of modifying mortgages without getting customers' consent.
Wells Fargo still faces a slew of investigations, including from the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice.
The company said in January that it's closing about 400 bank branches as online and mobile banking have continued to shake up the banking industry.
--CNNMoney's Matt Egan contributed to this report.
An error-laden New York Times book review published earlier this month has prompted controversy both inside and outside the newspaper's newsroom.
Earlier this month, on September 7, Michelle Goldberg, a new columnist at the Times, published a review of "Blurred Lines," a book by Vanessa Grigoriadis which grapples with the topic of sexual consent on college campuses.
In her review, Goldberg laced into Grigoriadis' work, writing that it was "too sloppy with the facts to succeed."
As it turned out, Goldberg was also sloppy with the facts.
Soon after it was published, a lengthy correction was affixed to the bottom of the piece.
And, to make matters worse, the original correction failed to account for another glaring mistake, the misspelling of a top civil rights official's name.
A second correction had to be added.
"I have the utmost respect for the NYT but I regret that a review that harped on the facts was thoroughly inaccurate," Grigoriadis, who is also a New York Times Magazine contributing writer, told CNN in a Friday text message.
Goldberg, who declined to comment to CNN, wrote on Twitter last week that she would "give a kidney and 5 years of my life" to take back the incorrect assertions she made.
But Grigoriadis was not forgiving, and challenged the underpinnings of her review in a blistering point-by-point rebuttal posted on Facebook.
"Michelle performed some of her own (incompetent) journalism here," Grigoriadis wrote in the September 16 Facebook post.
The controversy prompted chatter inside the Times newsroom, according to a Vanity Fair report published Thursday.
Times sources described the episode in the report as "humiliating" and said "it's being talked about a whole lot."
(That said, several Times sources who spoke to CNN cautioned that while it might be a hot discussion topic in some corners of the newsroom, those in other verticals are not talking about it.)
The Vanity Fair report, citing insiders, raised the question about whether the Times' slimmed down editing structure may be to blame for the errors slipping through in the review.
But others cited in the report disputed this notion, including Danielle Rhoades Ha, a spokesperson for the Times.
"Our editing standards and processes are the most robust and rigorous of any news organization," Ha told Vanity Fair.
"We deeply regret when mistakes happen, but work to correct them as soon as possible.
That's always been the case in our newsroom, and it remains so."
Pablo Escobar, one of the world's wealthiest and most notorious drug lords, met his end nearly a quarter-century ago, but his legacy continues to cast a shadow over the Netflix drama "Narcos."
On September 11, Carlos Munoz Portal, a location manager for the Netflix television series "Narcos," was found dead.
He had suffered multiple gunshot wounds in a car on a dirt road outside Mexico City, near a site he was scouting for future episodes of the TV show.
Roberto De Jesus Escobar Gaviria, Pablo Escobar's brother

In the wake of Portal's death, Pablo Escobar's brother is bringing his year-long trademark dispute with Netflix back into the headlines through an interview he gave The Hollywood Reporter (THR).
In that interview, speaking of "Narcos," which based its first two seasons on Pablo Escobar's life, he reportedly said he would "close their little show" if the streaming service did not reach a settlement agreement with him.
Roberto De Jesus Escobar Gaviria is Pablo Escobar's brother and former accountant.
He is also the founder of holding company Escobar Inc..
In July of 2016, his company requested $1 billion compensation from Netflix for what it contends are intellectual property violations.
It claims the streaming service has reaped substantial financial benefits from the popular global series by using Escobar's name and story.
Olof K. Gustafsson, chief executive officer of Escobar Inc., contended in an interview with CNNMoney that the company's request might sound "crazy" but they believe that "Narcos" is the streaming giant's most successful series and, he said, "it was never done with our authorization."
The company also seeks to defend its quest to copyright key terms related to the series and a related video game, "Narcos: Cartel Wars."
Narcos Productions, LLC, the company behind the series, has contested some of Escobar Inc.'s trademark requests, according to documents obtained by THR.
Lawyers for the company did not return CNN's request for comment.
Some of Escobar Inc.'s trademark requests relating to the name Pablo Escobar have already been granted, according to the United States Patent and Trademark Office database -- some as recently as September 19.
Escobar Inc. issued a press release this week calling on Netflix to make changes to their security protocol, with Gustafsson saying in a statement that it was "clearly not safe to film shows about drug lords."
Gaviria, 71, also spoke to THR and cautioned Hollywood about filming in Mexico and Colombia.
"I don't want Netflix or any other film production company to film any movies in Medellin or Colombia that relates to me or my brother Pablo without authorization from Escobar Inc.
It is very dangerous.
Especially without our blessing," he told THR.
"This is my country."
Asked how he would construe a statement put out by the Escobar family cautioning Netflix not to film in Mexico, Gustafsson said, "It should be construed as reality."
He added that he had no comment about how Netflix should approach filming in Mexico in the wake of the scout's death.
Netflix had no comment on the ongoing trademark dispute, Gaviria's comments or the death of Portal.
Netflix had released an earlier statement calling Portal "a well-respected location scout" and offering "condolences to his family."
Gustafsson said Netflix has not responded to Escobar Inc's offer to speak "about their security issues," in light of Portal's death.
Gaumont Television, which produces "Narcos" for Netflix and remains a key figure in the trademark dispute, did not respond to CNNMoney's request for comment on the dispute with Escobar Inc. or on plans for Season 4's production going forward.
In a statement, the production company did, however, say it was "shocked and devastated" to learn about the death of Portal, who it called "an esteemed and enormously well-regarded location scout."
"We are providing our full support to the local authorities as they investigate this tragedy and all of us at Gaumont send our heartfelt condolences to his family," Gene Stein, president of Gaumont Television, U.S., told CNNMoney.
The first two seasons of the Netflix drama focused on Escobar's cartel, including the efforts by the DEA and Colombian authorities to capture him, culminating with the drug lord's death in 1993.
Season 3 segued to Colombia's Cali cartel.
Executive Producer Eric Newman said after the first season he wasn't concerned about finding new plot lines.
"We plan on stopping when cocaine stops," he told Deadline.
Escobar Inc. Chief Operating Officer Daniel D. Reitberg told CNNMoney he's confident the company will win its battle "in the court of law."
"We're not just in the jungle.
We're not just some defunct cartel.
We are a real company with real trademarks, a real legitimate company," Reitberg said.
"And I happen to have been in the jungle with Roberto Escobar, biological brother of Pablo, down in Medellin, and I know that Roberto will not take less than $1 billion."
-- CNN's Megan Thomas contributed to this report.
The Trump administration plans to shut down the federal health insurance exchange for 12 hours during all but one Sunday in the upcoming Obamacare open enrollment season.
The shutdown will occur from midnight until noon every Sunday except Dec. 10.
The Department of Health and Human Services will also shut down the federal exchange -- healthcare.gov -- overnight on the first day of open enrollment, Nov. 1.
More than three dozen states use that exchange for their marketplaces.
HHS officials disclosed this information Friday during a webinar with community groups that help people enroll in Obamacare.
Outages occurred under the Obama administration, as well, but they weren't as frequent.
Typically, the online enrollment system was only shut down for a few hours at a time and it was much less frequent than once a week, former officials said.
"There is just a really big question as to why this is happening," said Lori Lodes, former CMS communications director.
The current administration said that the maintenance schedule was provided in advance to accommodate requests from the groups that assist applicants.
"Maintenance outages are regularly scheduled on healthcare.gov every year during open enrollment.
This year is no different," a spokesperson said.
"System downtime is planned for the lowest-traffic time periods on healthcare.gov including Sunday evenings and overnight."
Related: Trump slashing Obamacare advertising by 90%

The Trump administration has come under attack from critics who say that it is intentionally undermining the Affordable Care Act through regulatory actions.
It cut the enrollment period, slashed money for advertising by 90% and sliced the budget for navigators to help people shop for plans.
The fact that HHS is now closing the site for a portion of each weekend upset many consumer advocates.
Many working Americans  the prime target group for ACA insurance  might be shopping at just that time.
"Argh," was the reaction of Shelli Quenga, program director at the Palmetto Project in South Carolina, a nonprofit group that received about $1 million to help with outreach and enrollment in the past 12 months.
This month, HHS cut her budget in half for this year's open enrollment.
Open enrollment season this year runs from Nov. 1 to Dec. 15, less than half the time people have had to sign up during the first four years of the exchanges created under the Affordable Care Act.
More than 12 million people enrolled on the state and federal marketplaces for 2017 coverage, including more than 9 million on the federal exchange.
Some customers drop out over the course of the year as they get jobs or stop paying premiums.
Related: Obamacare no longer on death's door in Virginia

Advocates were already nervous that fewer people would sign up during the shortened period this time around.
"I could see this really impacting the ability of people to complete an application sign-up in a single sitting, which is so important," said Jason Stevenson, spokesman for the Utah Health Policy Project, an Obamacare navigator group.
He noted that 10 p.m. Mountain Time is often a relatively popular time for people to enroll online.
"Health insurance is complicated, and in the past couple of years we had an administration that made it easier to sign up," he said.
"But that has really changed in the past six months, with more hurdles not only for consumers but for those whose job it is to help them."
--CNNMoney's Tami Luhby contributed to this report.
Kaiser Health News is a national health policy news service that is part of the nonpartisan Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation.
All it takes is for you to update your phone to the newest operating system, or to download the latest version of any of your favorite social networking apps, to cause a chain reaction that may have disrupting effects on the world of media as you know it.
Take Apple's latest tweaks to its Safari browser, announced on September 12, which will allow users to view articles in what they call "reader mode," a lighter version of a webpage stripped of branding, graphic elements, and ads.
With Safari accounting for over 50% of the mobile browser market in the US, and with ads being a consistent chunk of the business of media companies, that new feature is particularly worrisome for publishers.
About as worrisome as video auto-play control features coming to Safari's desktop version -- which already exist on mobile -- posing new challenges to revenue generation through video ads.
While many of the innovations put forward by tech companies bring about exciting new opportunities to experiment with new kinds of storytelling, Jason Kint agreed with Brian Stelter that the incredible amount power tech has over the world of media is "very uncomfortable."
"Little nuances and changes can dramatically affect an entire ecosystem," Kint told Stelter.
Kint, the CEO of Digital Content Next, a trade group representing major companies in the digital publishing world (including CNN's owner Turner), was this week's guest on the Reliable Sources podcast.
Listen to the whole podcast here:

DCN's mission is "to protect the business of high quality digital journalism news and entertainment," which these days increasingly means staying on top of each new development enacted by technology companies, and understanding their potential impact.
The "uncomfortable" power dynamic between tech and media is best illustrated with this statistic from Kint: 99% of the growth in digital advertising in 2016 went to Google and Facebook.
Media companies "are fighting over that small meager growth" of 1%, as the Google-Facebook "duopoly" gobbles up the rest.
Kint thinks that's "not healthy," neither for the media companies that are often having to resort to cutbacks, nor for the tech giants themselves in the long run.
"This is the future of media, and it shouldn't work this way," Kint told Stelter.
Media companies often find themselves trying to adapt to the latest changes enacted by tech companies to seek new revenue opportunities, even though in most cases, monetization strategies are fuzzy at best.
For example, the new trend that has digital publishers "pivoting to video" can be traced back to last year, when Mark Zuckerberg announced that video would be a top priority for Facebook.
"As much as that's the case, he's going to drive an entire ecosystem chasing that," Kint told Stelter.
"Whether or not that's good for media in the long term, we don't know.
But Facebook has that power."
As Facebook's role within the Mueller investigation into Russian interference deepens, what stands out to Kint is "how little we know" about Russia's interference on the platform.
Disclosures happening now, nine months after the election, "are really just walking up to the starting line."
Listen to the full podcast here and subscribe on iTunes here.
A year ago, Mark Zuckerberg announced a complicated plan to change the shareholder structure of Facebook.
The idea was to keep control of the company, and free up billions of dollars for his charitable efforts focused on curing diseases and improving education.
On Friday, he reversed that plan -- days before he was set to appear in court to defend it.
Facebook's board had approved Zuckerberg's proposal to create a new kind of stock, known as Class C shares, that wouldn't have rights or the ability to vote on corporate policy.
Zuckerberg, who controls the majority of voting rights in Facebook (FB, Tech30), would have sold the Class C shares and deployed those funds to a philanthropic effort he set up with his wife, Priscilla Chan.
But the stock of Facebook, which is up 31% in the past year, has done so well that Zuckerberg says he will be able to fund his philanthropy and maintain control of the company for more than 20 years.
"The idea was that it would allow me to keep voting control of Facebook so we can continue to build for the long term, but also allow Priscilla and me to fund the work we're doing through the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative," he wrote in a Facebook post.
Zuckerberg wrote that he and Chan still intend to donate 99% of their Facebook stock during their lives.
He said he plans to sell between 35 million and 75 million shares in the next 18 months "to fund our work in education, science, and advocacy."
Facebook closed Friday at $170.54 a share.
At that level, the shares Zuckerberg expects to sell to make his donations are worth between $6 billion and $13 billion.
The reversal also allows Zuckerberg to avoid having to appear in court on Tuesday.
He was set to testify in Delaware in a lawsuit brought by shareholders who were contesting the proposed change in Facebook stock, which would have allowed Zuckerberg to keep control even while shedding shares.
"We're thrilled that Facebook has dropped the reclassification," shareholder attorney Stuart Grant of Grant & Eisenhofer said in a statement.
Grant was preparing to cross-examine Zuckerberg at trial.
"Stopping the issuance of the non-voting C shares is all the relief we were asking for at trial.
Today's move is a total victory for stockholders."
Non-voting shares are controversial in Silicon Valley; companies use them to allow founders to keep unfettered control of startups that grow into major companies.
"The fact that he's withdrawing is a positive sign for those opposed to non-voting stock," said Charles M. Elson, professor of corporate governance at the University of Delaware.
"I think it signals a nervousness with the concept, and I think that will serve as a warning sign to others contemplating a similar action."
-- CNN Tech's Seth Fiegerman and Heather Kelly contributed to this report.
The Securities and Exchange Commission waited until Wednesday to disclose a hack of its corporate filing system that occurred last year.
The disclosure raises questions about the agency's ability to protect important financial information and comes as Americans are still weighing the consequences of the massive hack at Equifax.
The SEC, the federal agency responsible for protecting investors and ensuring markets function properly, is under fire after disclosing the hack of its electronic network that whisks company news and data to investors.
The breach occurred despite repeated warnings in recent years about weaknesses in the agency's cybersecurity controls.
Experts question the length of time taken to disclose the breach, and why the SEC isn't meeting the same security standards it demands of corporate America.
"Public companies have a clear obligation to disclose material information about cyber risks and cyber events.
I expect them to take this requirement seriously," SEC Chairman Jay Clayton warned in a speech in July.
While it discovered the breach to its corporate filing system last year, the agency says it only became aware last month that information obtained by the intruders may have been used for illegal trading profits.
"It took quite a while," said Robert Cattanach, an attorney at Dorsey & Whitney and former trial attorney for the Justice Department, whose work includes cybersecurity and data breaches.
"The integrity of our whole trading system is dependent on keeping this information secure.
... People have got some 'splaining to do."
The SEC didn't explain why the initial hack was not revealed sooner, or which individuals or companies may have been affected.
The disclosure came two months after a government watchdog said deficiencies in the corporate filing system put the system, and the information it contains, at risk.
The agency also didn't disclose any information about who might have carried out the breach.
A hack by Chinese or Russian actors can't be ruled out, experts say.
"Certainly state actors would be on the list of suspects that come to mind," said Marcus Christian, a former federal prosecutor who is an attorney working in Mayer Brown's cybersecurity and national security practices.
Still, he added, the list also would include "regular old criminal actors."
U.S. prosecutors in Manhattan brought criminal charges last December against three Chinese traders, accusing them of using nonpublic information stolen from two New York law firms to rack up nearly $3 million in illegal profits.
The SEC filed a similar civil action, marking the first time the agency laid charges of hacking into a law firm's computer network.
The confidential information was said to be linked to clients of the firm considering mergers or acquisitions.
Clayton disclosed the hack in a statement posted to the SEC's website.
It comes just two weeks after the credit agency Equifax revealed a stunning cyberattack that exposed highly sensitive personal information of 143 million people.
Clayton is scheduled to appear Tuesday before the Senate Banking Committee, and he is certain to be questioned about the hack.
Democratic Sen. Mark Warner of Virginia, a member of the committee, said in a statement Thursday that the disclosures by the SEC and Equifax show "that government and businesses need to step up their efforts to protect our most sensitive personal and commercial information."
The SEC chief blamed the breach on "a software vulnerability" in the filing system known as EDGAR, short for Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system.
EDGAR processes more than 1.7 million electronic filings a year.
Those documents can cause enormous movements in the stock market, sending billions of dollars into motion in fractions of a second.
Clayton, a Wall Street attorney appointed by President Donald Trump to the SEC post, said the agency has been assessing its cybersecurity since he took over as chairman in May.
Experts note, however, that both agency and congressional investigators have been critical for years of the SEC's handling of its information technology security.
Early this decade, the SEC inspector general's office uncovered security lapses involving SEC staffers who examined the data-protection systems of the stock exchanges.
Some of the staffers used unencrypted laptops to store sensitive exchange information  and then carried the laptops to a Las Vegas conference for information-security professionals that is known to attract hackers.
The 2011-12 investigation raised concerns of a potential breach of the exchanges' information.
David Weber, a professor at the University of Maryland's business school and a former assistant SEC inspector general for investigations, worked on that probe.
The agency "clearly has not held itself to the same standard that it expects regulated companies to adhere to" and "needs to up its game," he said in an interview Thursday.
In 2015, an impostor slipped through the EDGAR filing system with a bogus $8 billion takeover bid for Avon Products.
The stock rocketed 20 percent, but it quickly dropped, burning anyone who'd bought shares of the cosmetics giant at pumped-up prices.
The SEC later sued a Bulgarian investor for allegedly orchestrating bogus acquisition bids for Avon and two other companies.
The hack of EDGAR is especially concerning because of how widely investors have used and trusted the system, which first came online in the early 1990s.
Companies periodically file earnings and a range of financial information, and they alert investors to important developments that could affect their share prices, like government investigations, executive shake-ups and approaches for a takeover.
Some experts say gaining access to the system is too easy and the SEC should consider stricter vetting, though they caution that doing so wouldn't guarantee blocking scammers from getting through.
Experts say stricter requirements could include passwords, personal ID, secret questions and answers, security tokens that continuously flash new ID numbers, fingerprints, eye scans or voice recognition.
Transcript for Walmart tests out a new grocery delivery service

doctor's office or pharmacy.
Next tonight, your money and grocery store and big box stores competing for it.
And this question, would you let Walmart in when you're not home if they delivered groceries right to your refrigerator?
Rebecca jarv Rebecca Jarvis tracking your money.
Reporter: What if you didn't feel like you had to be at two places at once.
Walmart taking the convenience of home delivery a few steps farther testing a new service.
The driver enters a one-time use code.
Reporter: The company partnering with lockmaker August home placed an order online and Walmart's delivery person can gain entry to your home, even stock your fridge, all while you're watching in realtime on your smartphone.
I think for younger folks working and putting in all kinds of hours and having a large commute it's a tremendous idea.
Reporter: But raising questions, too.
Not so sure about them coming in my home when I'm not there.
Reporter: Bottom line, David, this is one more step in the major competition between Walmart and Amazon.
Both retailers dueling to increase convenience and of course, profits, too.
David.
Thank you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Bridgewater hedge fund manager Ray Dalio talks investing, leadership

Hey guys welcome to reeled is happy Friday I'm Rebecca Jarvis the chief business technology and economics correspondent at ABC news and we have a great guest here with us today.
Rate valeo he is the founder of Bridgewater.
Associates which is the largest hedge fund in the world a 160.
Billion dollars under management and he is also the author.
Of this awesome new book it's called principles.
And it takes us on a road trip through your life through all of these stories all of these lessons learned along the way.
You starting your work behind.
From your two bedroom apartment here in New York City 1975.
Welcome to real biz.
Tell us about the book tell us about the inspiration and why he would write something like this today.
I wanted to writer because.
I wanted to pass along.
Just different things that I learned in order to be successful.
What I did.
Was every time I was in the situation.
I would write down the criteria for making a decision.
And so like created this collection of principles over a period of time when in this type of situation that type of situation what to do.
Then and I didn't want.
Publicity I wanna be private but in 2000 they we and to spend the financial crisis.
And we did well and we received a lot of attention because of the way that we think differently.
And it was misunderstood.
Generally.
So I put the principles that I wrote on line there was downloaded about three and a half million times and received a lot of thank you notes.
And now I'm at a stage of my life while making the transition.
I'm making the transition from political the second stage of my life took the third stage in my life.
You know I think that it's that one was elected three stages basis.
In the first stage of your life your dependent on others and you learn.
In the second stage of your life fewer weren't working.
And others are dependent on you.
And then you get to assert import pictures successful and you're no longer interest it and being more successful yourself.
The thing that you want to do was make other people successful it's like your parents at a certain age you want to make the other people successful.
And 2017.
Is really my transition year.
For the set second stage of my life with the third stage and wildlife.
And I had this cookbook of recipes so to speak that when I was operating in that and various circumstances.
I would use and it it's been miraculous.
It's been so it helps people understand each in other words by writing down a principal.
We've been able would have better understandings with the people I work went.
And we've also been able to convert them and algorithms.
That means that the computers are making decisions with us.
So it's been very very impact fool and so the main reason I'm passing along his own want to pass along what I've learned that's been helpful.
In order to help of the people.
I also hope.
That it will encourage other people too bright they are principally because not just my principles whatever the recipes for success are.
If you would have think can I get the principles for I wish Steve Jobs I was Einstein I wish all of those people.
Wrote their recipes when I was encountering something what what I do at that moment.
You know so if others right principles.
We'll also know.
How to deal with each you know I think to be principal I think right now in the country.
We have to think what is being principles what principles.
Bind us together what divide us.
Can we be clear about those and walked the talk for all those reasons I felt it was compelled to pass them along.
Were any taking questions from all of you so if you do have questions feel free to leave them in the comment section something that you write about.
In in the book ray.
That I really respect is this idea that the right answer might not be the answer that you come to you but you're looking for the right answer can come from anywhere.
And to your point about finding the right principles.
There are a lot of Smart people in this world in there are ways to reverse engineer success by looking at what they've done by looking at what you've done.
How did you make yourself open.
And maybe it was in that sort of first to second stage in life how did you.
Make yourself open as a leader who.
Need to be trusted needed to be seen as the person with the vision but also be open to taking ideas from elsewhere.
Misstates.
The power of mistakes.
In the talk about this as well will this is how I learned.
And so it was of a changing moment and in 1982.
I had put the greatest failure of my life.
A head in two stated that they were there.
Our country's wouldn't be able pay their don't expect that the banks and so on and it turned out to be right about that got a lot of tension for that.
On Wall Street greed congress asked me testify in all of this.
And I thought one when they would have that bank defaults Mexico defaulted on its debt and on August.
I thought than we were going to have an economic problem and we did have a debt problem but we didn't have an economic problem the exact.
Bottom in the stock market I thought things were.
Going to collapse and they went all right and I was so wrong.
That I had to let everybody ago.
And I got down to the point where I was so broke that I had to borrow 4000 dollars from that.
To help pay for my family's expenses and things.
And it was incredibly painful moment.
But it was the best thing maybe that ever happened one of the best things.
Because.
As I reflected on that it changed my attitude rather than thinking I'm right I started asked myself satellite no one.
It gave me the humility that I needed to balance with my audacity.
It made me asked that question.
How to one knows them right and it gave me an open mindedness what I think is one of the greatest tragedies of mankind.
And it's because it's so easily fixed is that people have in their minds.
Their own.
Opinions.
That are often wrong.
The best opinion may not be the one in your head and so what if you start to think.
How to Lenovo.
Right and you go out and stress tests that opinion and yeah do it in an open minded way.
And you take in things all of a sudden you realize that you can have the best thinking of anyone around you.
And so the important thing is to be right but it doesn't have to come from you the idea in your head right and that led me to create an idea and their credit company reports.
I wanted to.
Brightest independent thinkers who would challenge feature each other to create an idea meritocracy.
And eyes I describe in the book.
You know how that meritocracy working and that's basically just three things.
First everybody's got to put their honest thoughts on the table to look at yes of people don't do that right so you have to encourage right.
So put the honest thoughts on second.
You have Stewart and Julian value thoughtful disagreement not view it is conflict.
Right OK you can't have that thing in your style make.
I'm comfortable with the conflict you have to go with the conflict and allow it to happen.
It is Reverend Wright.
Is there an opportunity to learn.
How can I do how could we collectively make a better decision than we do individually.
And then third.
If used if that's still doesn't resolve it.
You have to have idea America credit worries of getting past that disagreement.
In other words know who knows and knows we have what we call believability waited decision.
And that has been the key to the success.
Cause the power.
Of getting the best ideas and collectively working.
And that humility that fear of being wrong raises the probability of being right.
That's been the key so one of the key elements here is to do that you know but.
They eat the book is filled with a lot of those kinds of suggestions that if you can operate with this principle that as the State's these various recipes and lots of things.
Well what I like about it is it's taking whoever you are and it optimizing it because this well while you have played in the field of finance throughout your life.
This is the kind of user manual that anybody who's a manager whether your.
Starting a new company that deals in widgets or you're running a restaurant.
Or you are hoping to someday do one of those things or anything frankly as a leader this is a guide book and it starting point for people.
Yes and I found from a lot of of the people's reactions I believe it's true for me.
It is even be on that.
It's any relationship.
OK it's any relationship or it's even just figuring out yourself and what is the right way to make decisions.
The rich and well.
That's what that's what the word principles mean.
Yeah right how do you deal with reality to get what you want effectively.
And there's only two things you need to do to be successful.
You need to know what the best decisions are on you have to have the courage to make them.
And when you start to realize that what you have in your head may not be the best and and get it wherever it is.
It's powerful for you whatever does life.
Would of the decisions you're making.
Totally agree OK we have got questions.
Okay Matt asks what's your favorite recipe and haircut.
Are there a lot of different recipes.
But again just building on this thing I would say.
Think for yourself.
No way.
That you don't know.
OK you don't all know all the things that you need to.
So to be able to have that radical open mindedness.
To know your weaknesses.
And to know what to do about.
They're only five things you need to do really.
In order to get what you want the first thing is you have to have your audacious goals.
You you have to do when you're going to your goals.
You're going to and challenging your problems in your failures.
You have to die knows those problems to get at their root causes.
And those root causes may be weaknesses you or mistakes that you see you have to embrace those.
And look at those who I have a week and then you have to design your way out of whatever that weaknesses or whatever that mistake is to get around that problem.
And that may include if you have a weakness to be able to work with people who were strong where you or we can't.
And then with that design.
To then pushed through to results XQ that is so.
And other words.
Know what you don't know yes and no had to deal with it recognize.
That what you don't know is much greater than what you do know.
My daddy used to always say the more you know the more you know you don't that's right.
Right and so knowing how to deal with your not knowing not not embrace your weaknesses.
Know them figure out how to deal with them and do that collectively.
It's very powerful.
So how do you think about this what your hiring and how do you diagnosed.
And another person sitting across Romeo and determine whether or not they're aware those five things and that they would work out the team will not the people normally are not used to being in an environment in which there's that.
Radicals straightforward news and and dealing with those things.
And you talk about your honesty and realizing along the way that sometimes that radical honesty.
Didn't always go the way that you are expecting it to.
Right.
So the way we deal with it is we try to explain that explain in the book.
It's explained before they come we show people what the environments like a chilling videos.
You know we take everything for everybody to see.
We take everything for everybody to see.
OK so that that's way you have to have an idea meritocracy.
So because of people can't see things that you form their own opinion and right so we'll show them what it's like.
And then they make an intellectual decision.
They want this and then they come in because.
You know.
I guess there would described bridge ordered one sentence or hostess it's an idea meritocracy.
In which the goals or equally to have meaningful work and meaningful relationships.
The relationships part is as much the reward.
I and to do that we need to be radical truthful witness and radical transparency.
Because of what you can have an idea meritocracy.
And that's been the magic formula so weak weak first say you wanna do it intellectually.
It's like going into the Navy SEALs you might say I want to do it can't hurt you up for this and then you go in and you experience it.
And people go through an adjustment process and it typically takes about eighteen months all behavior modification typically takes about eighteen months.
Of getting used to it.
About a third of the people it's not for you know it just doesn't work out.
For that reason.
About the majority of people once they get to that perspective of having this transparency they could speak up vacancy that they want people can.
Communicate their protocols for having real idea meritocracy.
Then they don't want to work anywhere else.
Because they have relationships but they also know that there's office politics.
You know normally.
Behind the C rights at all.
You don't know what somebody's thinking about.
Velocity two years that's not the same here.
So there's a transition team and so it's from the answer your question.
It's from the beginning of exploiting it it's by showing of the videos it's by having toe in the water rates by going there fighting out of its right.
And then they have all.
Witty line it's all part of the evolutionary process right.
It's part of self discovery.
I don't think there's probably anybody that I know who's gone to company Bridgewater.
Who hasn't found it fabulous self discovery process I guarantee you it interest.
And if fruits and if it's for you it's phenomenal it's like getting fit it's a you know I was thinking.
Yeah it's sort Europe.
Nobody likes to exercise.
You know ward the diet or whatever may be that's necessary to do that but to have behavior change and make you feel more effective.
It's great.
So anyway that's different reactions.
Great answer.
And how I like that questions of Isabel was asking.
For those of you out there.
Where to the principles come from early life teaching.
Our principles come from interacting with reality.
And then reflecting on those interactions.
I've an expression.
I think it is Georgian troops that I experience.
Plus reflection.
Equals progress.
And what I mean is if you're doing something wrong.
You're gonna get communicated by pain and if you're successful.
You're not gonna change.
But it in the pain and on this day.
There's probably a lesson so washed my attitude stored to change whenever I would make a painful mistake.
I would think of it is a puzzle.
That would give me a jab.
If I could solve the pots and the puzzle was.
What would be the principles that I would use so that when I encountered the same situation again.
I would have a better result.
And the jab.
Would be that principle to have a better results and by writing them down.
So why thing.
That you are very systematic about your approach Yahoo!
This isn't a Willy Nilly reflection of going over the same pot again in the getting good.
Doesn't stick.
If so it seemed like they come from or.
Encounters with reality.
Particularly painful encounters if you loosen there's okay.
It's screaming at you.
That you need a principle to don't doing the same thing again.
And if you ride it down this is like thirty years of writing these.
Okay and then you look at it with people and you communicate with people is that a good way of dealing with that thing.
And edit and then one another one comes law.
As the same things happen over and over gray.
When another one comes along and you look at that principle or even when you're dealing with people you together agree on that study only a lose lose situation.
It compounds.
And it and that's where to build them they the principles that's most effective way.
I want it there's so many places I could go with this but I want to talk to a little bit about current events and what's happening in the world.
A question that I frequently get from people were looking up the market now the Dow the S&P 500 have hit new all time highs it seems like almost every other day this year.
Based on article at you mentioned that the world feels like 1930s.
Yup yup.
Where do you think we are in this current cycle and can it really last when.
Companies like apple and Amazon and FaceBook are 30% of the growth we've seen in stock so far.
Links but why it's very similar in 1937.
In we had a debt crisis in 2000 and day and in that period we had interest rates come down to zero.
And that was like 1933.
32 when interest rates it is a reaction to the Great Depression that's right.
And then there's the Federal Reserve in both of those cases the only time this century up.
Printed a lot of money and bought a lot of financial assets and so from the bought 2000.
Until the present.
Just like from 1932.
Until 1937.
Asset prices went up a lot of money supplies increased Wright what more money supply and the economy's rebound in him okay.
But that rebound.
Had a two tier economy read it it it there was one economy that did grates or if you look at measures like.
The unemployment rate and if you look at the stock market and so on that spot.
But if you divide the economy into two parts you see that there's two very different parts to Africa.
To put that in perspective the top 110 of 1% of our populations now worth.
Is equal to the 90%.
Combined the bottom 90% c'mon.
If you look at the bottom 60% of the population.
They have miserable existence economy has not worked for hasn't had any glee at having rat wages haven't gone up and.
And yeah percent of the country doesn't have a 401K or any kind of backed notes.
The aggregate no sense and worse than that.
It's the only.
Place in the world we're death rate to rise in another words.
Combination of opiates.
Suicide.
And other words bad economy he just carved out that 60% economy.
That's a very bad economy and so we have.
Just like the 1935.
To forty period.
And so we have that gap.
That's the biggest issue of our time it's reflected in the elections OK it's a big issue.
If the economy was to have a downturn.
Yesterday.
It would be a lot of anger that would be a wealth conflict that would be a social conflict between political con right.
So add were also what the point 1937.
Was the point where they stopped pushing those interest rates and.
Roderick there is now hiking they're not buying their their peeling back on on their purchases of asset write.
And so we are now in a situation.
In which we this Federal Reserve has got to be very careful.
The written because.
First.
All assets are sensitive to interest rate changes.
And we have a more leverage economy have that polarity.
So as we move forward.
The less of them 1930s.
It doesn't mean we have to repeat 1930s.
But the lesson of 1937.
Is with those large obligations.
And with that.
And there is in a symmetric risk on the down side and so to be careful about tightening monetary policy.
Because if you ask the Federal Reserve they can't explain the relationship between unemployment and inflation.
Ray okay.
What we won't really don't have inflation right now even though the unemployment rate has gone down in the one thing.
That you heard from fed chair Janet Yellen multiple times in the last.
Press conference earlier this week.
They can't really figure out why inflation isn't going up.
List you can't figure it out okay I have my own what you need to carry.
But I think that they're defining labor as unemployment.
Rather than the new world labor and think about it is a combination of technologies for good that is almost robots.
And technology competing with people and now what is the work force.
And the competition.
Between technology.
Other words what's happening now.
Is that as algorithms.
Are built they start to replace a lot of jobs estimated that over than you know next.
Twenty years we could lose about 40% of our work.
Yet you talked about it competent artificial intelligence algorithms automation all of those things can run have an impact of very significant want it.
Well it's not if it'd happen.
So when we look at this if the Federal Reserve does not know why flee his rise it okay.
And the risks array symmetric on downs are okay because it's so much easier.
To you know that tightening monetary policies that work causes a lot of debt when you raise interest rates.
You know that the brakes were on hand but if you're close to zero on interest rates and you've done a lot of quantitative easing.
And also asset prices have gone up in their very interest rates.
If you know all those things that you know it's not as easy on that it's a symmetric on the downside also socially and politically.
So wait at least until you see more sides of inflation.
Before worrying about the tightening of monetary policy that's the lesson of 1937.
The let in 1937 that was a small tightening set the stock market down 50% and caused a lot of social conflict.
That was the thing so be careful it's analogous to 1937.
So and I know we have to wrap things up here but what do you think about the fact that it very likely we'll see the Fed hike interest rates in December and then three more times next year from what they've signal is that.
If if all things are steady as they are at this moment if everything was held constant as they are at this moment.
And the Fed does exactly what it has signaled it will do.
Where do you think that puts us an okay spot or in a dangerous place.
I think that would be in a dangerous placed on the other hand let me say they're for the last I would say.
22 and a half years.
The Fed gave such indications before right and they haven't necessarily make that they didn't do any bat.
Okay they did they didn't do less lower right because.
As they.
Were feeling their way along.
They were they saw that that would not be a good move in hand so I believe that the picture that the Fed is painting.
In terms of its combination of interest rates are letting the balance sheet Ron down.
Will be not what they will end up doing probably.
Because I think that would be too tight at a dangerous time so I don't think they'll do that.
But time will tell.
Last question everybody.
Worst advice you received your career.
Make people.
Love they should make people happy.
I think I should I think I should help people be successful.
And that sometimes.
Happiness in that move that in the moment mood.
Is something that is the opposite you know the world is made up of first order consequences and second water yes.
And often the first to water consequences.
Eat something that tastes good.
Good in the moment that type of mentality commit necessarily pay off in the long run a lot of the time in actually so.
Think about what you.
You know.
Think about what is going to be what you really want and think about the second order consequences to get what you want.
Because we have two brains and harboring rail and we have the thoughtful part of our brain and it pre frontal cortex port thoughtful.
And then we have that emotional.
And emotional so wonderful thing but there are two types of emotions those that'll harm us and those are really that all what we want inspiration.
You know all of those good ones and to know that there's a great trick in life.
And that great trick of life is that those first order consequences.
That are the emotional ones can get us in trouble.
I believe that to be true so I would say that you know the worst is look beyond the first order consequences.
Fantastic rate Elliott thank you so much for joining us thank you it was really an interesting conversation the book is called principal.
Amazon might be sold out right now so if you're going.
Well put year old lottery and you're he'll be on the top of the list that'll come it's been and allot them and so.
If it'll get there which is phenomenal so culprits irate Alley a thank you so much street for stopping by thank you and have a great weekend everybody be well.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Nine things Facebook vows to do to help combat election interference

I would assure the steps that were taken to protect election integrity and make sure that FaceBook is a force for democracy.
And while the amount problematic content that we found so far remains relatively small.
And he attempted interference is a serious issue.
So you're dying thing it's that we're going to be working on over the next few months first.
We are actively working with the US government on its ongoing investigations into Russian interference second.
We will continue our own investigation.
Into what happened on FaceBook in this election third.
Going forward and maybe the most important steps we're taking is we're going to make political advertising more transparent.
Fourth.
We will strengthen our own ad review process for political.
We are increasing our investment in security and specifically in the election integrity.
Sixth.
We will expand our partnerships with election commissions around the world seven.
We will increase sharing of threat information with other technology and security companies.
We are working proactively.
To strengthen the democratic process finally.
We've been working to ensure the integrity of the German elections this we.
From taking action against.
Thousands of fake accounts are partnering with public authorities that the federal office for information security team sharing security practices with the candidates and parties.
We're also examining the activity of accounts we've removed and we've not yet found similar type.
Interference effort in Germany.
And this is incredibly important and we've been focused on this for a while.
Now with the same time.
It's important not to lose sight.
Some of the more straightforward and in larger ways that FaceBook please role in elections and these effects operated much larger scales of a hundred times or a thousand times bigger than what we're discussing here.
In 2016.
People billions and billions of interactions and open discussions on FaceBook that they have never happened before offline.
Candidates had direct channels to communicate with tens of millions of citizens.
And campaign spent tens of millions organizing.
An advertising online to get their messages out further.
We organized get out the vote efforts helped as many as two million people registered to vote who might not have voted under its.
Many these dynamics were new in this election.
And at a much larger scale then had ever seen before history adamant.
And they were much larger in scale than any of the interference that we found.
We will continue working with the government to understand the full extent Russian interference.
And we will do our part not only to ensure the integrity of free and fair elections around the world.
But also to give everyone a voice it to be a force for good and democracy everywhere.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Women accuse Google of discrimination against female employees

We turn to a major new lawsuit for women at Google claiming g@nder discrimination.
Saying the company pays men more than women and gives women fewer opportunities.
Our chief business correspondent Rebecca Jarvis is here with the story.
Good morning, Rebecca.
Good morning, Michael.
Yes, that's rye of the three women have tied the lawsuit accusing Google of discriminating against female employees by systematically paying them lower compensation than Google pays to male employees performing substantiallily similar work.
Essentially it is saying they're underpaying them denying them promotion opportunities and they want to make it a class action suit covering all women who worked at Google within the last four years.
And a spokesperson for Google telling me they disagree with the central allegations and that the company has extensive systems to place -- to ensure that we pay fairly.
The department of labor is also investigating Google's hiring practices.
This is not the end.
We'll continue to hear about this.
When is this going to stop?
The more people talk about this, the more it's exposed if it is, in fact happening, the more change we can make.
We can hope.
Yes, absolutely.
Yes, we can.
All right.
Thanks, guys.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Silicon Valley CEO says she dyes her hair brown to be taken seriously

All right, switching gear now to a story about one CEO's strategy to help her get ahead in silicon valley.
She says she dyed her hair brown to be taken more seriously in the tech world.
ABC's Rebecca Jarvis has more.
All right, why are we in Oakland?
Eileen Carrey is a successful CEO in silicon valley known for co-founding glassbreakers, a diversity and inclusion opportunity software company.
This morning it's not her top tech that has everyone talking.
It's her hair.
Made the decision based on research to change my perception in a way so that it improved the likelihood of, you know, being taken more seriously as a leader, as opposed to maybe a sexual object.
Reporter: One of her secrets to getting ahead, proactively fighting the blond stereotype.
Going from this to this.
When I first started the company I I was given stress from a friend who just broke down and plain and simple terms about perception, how I would be perceived.
Reporter: While running her company as a blond in a male dominated workforce she feared her hair color made it less likely she would be taken seriously by potential investors.
I kept getting comments about, it's so up pressive that you're so young and you started this company like I was 23 but I'm 31.
So I dyed my hair.
I wanted to appear a little less sexy.
Reporter: Karen Shackleford says this feeling is common in the workplace.
There are research study has show women who dress more femininely, wear more jewelry, look more attractive are less likely to be hired for managerial positions.
She said she heard plenty of stories like her own and not just in silicon valley.
That's something that happens all over America in our school, in our offices, in our government.
So this is a phenomenon that does not affect me but all of us.
Indeed.
So great to have Rebecca and editor in chief of "Marie Claire" with us.
I know you have a podcast called no limits.
How does this story compare to all you've seen in the tech world.
A podcast Ann has been on and want you on soon, Lara.
We are hearing this everywhere.
Fundamentally an issue with women trying to be heard, that desire to be seen as something more than a sex object and to be taken seriously and that's really what's happening here.
It takes different forms, but women all over the workfce are trying to be heard and taken seriously.
And, Anne, this really is about more than hair, isn't it?
This is a larger conversation.
Well, yeah, I think there are two things at play.
One silicon valley definitely has a sexism problem and that has got to change.
But secondly women no matter where we work are going to be judged on our appearance more harshly than men and you have to play that game.
Do I think you need to change the color of your hair, absolutely not.
If that gives you confidence to walk in a room and own it then I say go for it.
I'll ask you, Rebecca.
You talked to so many powerful women.
What advice do you have to women who want to get ahead, specifically in the tech world?
I think one really simple and straightforward piece of advice that I heard from a top female CEO in silicon valley is to speak up once a day in a meeting.
And that's something that you can make a commitment to yourself and do.
Just say, every day once a day I am going to speak up in a meeting.
I'm going to make it comfortable for myself, because it does get more comfortable the more that you do it and the more you talk, the more you're heard.
You think you'll be heard loud and clear, blond or brunette?
Absolutely.
Just carry yourself with confidence.
I love that, I mean at the end of the day that is ulth they what it's all about, we hope.
Really great conversation you guys.
Thank you so much.
Coming up, everybody, the

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Now Playing: $24 million winner claims prize with 2 days left

Now Playing: Walmart tests out a new grocery delivery service

Now Playing: Bridgewater hedge fund manager Ray Dalio talks investing, leadership

Now Playing: Nine things Facebook vows to do to help combat election interference

Now Playing: Women accuse Google of discrimination against female employees

Now Playing: Silicon Valley CEO says she dyes her hair brown to be taken seriously

Now Playing: Florida Irma evacuee wins $10K in NC lottery

Now Playing: Hurricane Irma will likely be costliest storm in U.S. history

Now Playing: Barry's Bootcamp CEO shares top career lessons

Now Playing: Harvey triggers major spike in gas prices nationwide

Now Playing: Harvey has caused an instant spike in gas prices nationwide

Now Playing: Amazon and Whole Foods slash grocery prices

Now Playing: Gas prices expected to rise as Hurricane Harvey passes over oil refineries

Now Playing: Massachusetts woman quits job after $758.7M Powerball win

Now Playing: Superior outdoor products made in America

Now Playing: Johnson and Johnson ordered to pay $417M to one woman over cancer claims

Now Playing: Woman wins $1.6 million on Vegas airport slot machine

Now Playing: AMC tries to legally block MoviePass service

Now Playing: The best ways to save on back-to-school essentials
Transcript for Hurricane Irma will likely be costliest storm in U.S. history

That is a scene in Miami right now.
100-mile-an-hour winds.
You see the palm trees swaying.
That is not the worst of the storm.
That's Miami right now.
Miami police waning officers are sheltered in place.
They're not able to respond to anyone in trouble.
We're going the talk more with with chief business and economics reporter Rebecca Jarvis.
The mayor doesn't know what the damage will be like.
We know lit cost a lot.
If the estimates are right, George, this will be the costliest storm in U.S. History.
Hurricane Irma now potentially going to cost $200 billion.
Back to back with hurricane Harvey, which could cost as much as $180 billion.
Back to back two of the most expensive storms in history.
Greater than Katrina, which cost $160 billion.
You have to think about the area this storm is tracing.
Some of the most populated areas.
8 1/2 million properties in potential risk.
The crops.
Florida is a place we get Orange juice from.
A number of produce products.
$1.2 billion in crop damage is estimated right now.
Gnat ongoing issue, the fact that there are major gasoline out outages.
The fourth largest shipping port in the country is shut down.
Getting back to business is going to take a long time.
That's even though the biggest city?
The state, Miami, getting hit hard by wind.
But spared the worst.
Spared the worst.
But you have this all up and down the west coast now.
Gasoline outannals.
People have rushed to get out of town.
As a result of this storm.
But still, you have very likely going to see huge, huge economic implications from the storm.
They could really expand into the national economy.
It could show up in the gdp figures going forward as well.
Nat ewe dowd, ymatthew dowd, you were advising George Bush in the hurricane Katrina aftermath.
Many people forget that hurricane Katrina horribly tragic, three weeks later, wee had hurricane Rita.
We had two major hurricanes.
When you look back, the lessons learned from people by Katrina.
And two, how important the likely action and local decisionmaking and local authority is from the city to the state.
The two governors, governor Abbott and Scott, have both responded well.
The city officials have been all over this pip think secondarily, the president's response.
I have to say, mother nature doesn't dwiscriminate and is not partisan.
They expect our leaders not the be partisan.
President trump has emphasized supporting the local officials.
He has.
Absolutely.
He's been on task.
I think in the midst of this when he made the deal on the debt ceiling and FEMA funding, he did it in a bipartisan way.
In the midst of the tragedy, this is the best week of the president's Prez zen si.
Your dad is there.
He's 83.
In his closet with mattresses.
Holed up.
E H knows he'll be there for the next 12, 24 hours.
A long day ahead.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Barry's Bootcamp CEO shares top career lessons

You started working out you said early on with fairy.
And you move your way up.
Inside of the company to CEO which I really admire the idea of learning the whole business before you get to that top plea in the company he.
What are some of the most important lessons you learned along the way.
I think for me it's been about.
I never really started out my career theories.
You see.
It wasn't this.
It was about.
It got to get it where.
It is.
So much how they.
It was about Natalie.
We're.
Hugh B will also be.
I you.
And else people.
Which is essentially.
Total fantasy.
What I hear what you love something first of all passion is so important to being an evangelist it actually and really caring about it not speaking at not being like some outside of its like oh yeah I love this thing but actually don't really.
But then once you're in it and you're experiencing it you.
Really understand it and you know how it works and packets to the execution part you can appreciate.
If you make a change in fact of the company you can appreciate.
What all of the people inside of the company working are gonna respond to that changed life.
And you're expanding a lot now I read is at 39.
Locations one hour 41 might be.
Four one by the end of this year and you're expanding I read Stockholm in the line.
Yet we we just.
I'm curious internationally.
Our people is nuts about working out as they are in the days to go it's hard it did and.
Definitely not me.
It appears like a pop star break.
I'm targeting and seeking to manage it can we get influence some oh.
Oh my eyes.
I don't think that we had.
There are until.
Oh my Angel but at times do.
And he can attest how fun it is time yeah.
Party in the lighting gas sexy in there's definitely won't like.
Performance element to it that people are connecting it.
Internationally regardless.
Intense exercise is.
Stockholm was super massive people when I did my influences.
15% of the people that well when you.
That's that's the term of those.
That at least at twelve point zero when you're damaged twenty.
It's twelve miles an hour.
Wow you know that's article driving yet but they're being you know by sitting there writing and I let.
Hands.
London these symptoms.
In Dubai.
Pastor is.
Dubai is interesting a lot of B kind of fitness brands from the US and they're and second location after new York and LA.
Is due by them.
It's it seems like it's a market that a lot of people want to be and why do you think that is.
And there are a lot of acts that swimming.
American and you walk and been to divide I have I actually have visited a friend of mine with there it's really isn't walker.
The city and you see.
Peak American concepts like restaurants case that two locations.
So it's definitely a place that says.
There.
What would be your number one tip to people out there who want to start a workout regiment.
But they're afraid.
And I think about it I was deeply.
I think when you can make working social.
It just as fun if you running next to someone other areas are outside and having a hard time if something that.
Mara choose something that you really enjoy it because then you'll want to go back but enjoyment is relative because when I am very class I'm having fun.
Yeah but I feel so home good afterwards.
And I feel so strong and so empowered and I see the results but that's what keeps me coming back so what ever your motivation is do something that makes you feel good that you're not like dragging yourself there and eating it.
Because then you're just you're it you're not and keep it out.
And for I talked a lot of people I'm like an evangelist pretty bad but I love berries and that I talked a lot of people about an I'm not ready yet and it I would before I was.
When I might first there is class literally the instructor was joking.
When he said take your inclined to 15% and out like this is really funny and then everywhere rallies are I was like wait they're serious about this.
So I was not ready I wasn't in shape but I went and got through it kept going that's what gets you instincts and that's what I was told it was just comic the bandit.
And was people always say it.
Varies I didn't.
That you weren't like super eight I don't worry about jobs there and me.
And you.
Should.
Well and I very much and it's it's your instructor when they know which are there's there's started.
Is it that these two.
And they're just.
The other misconception that you haven't met but because of the boot camp at some weakening the Alley you.
And quietly cute lady peace is comrade faster it's not like like everybody in the same we're all struggling together and the instructors are really supportive.
No it doesn't drill sergeant.
By its board when it comes to you eat up that it right from the customers while employees.
Leadership alliance use your instructors.
To me and hide people that.
Our or or out there was watching right now we liked commencement without high.
Cardona and a lot of them think they are governed positive off them.
Is inspirational and this is what people that the news that those.
That's true they desperation.
But I believe that you were.
As a after values in place to make sure that we especially this level you and higher in people.
We understand there's very it is and why.
Six two decades.
And a lot of have to do treat.
William treatment.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Harvey triggers major spike in gas prices nationwide

Next tonight, the big spike in gas prices heading into the last weekend of summer vacation.
Here's Rebecca Jarvis.
Reporter: Tonight, gasoline prices surging.
The national average for a gallon of regular is now $2.55, up 50 cents.
In Dallas, what looks like a parking lot is really the endless line for gas, and many pumps there already out.
Harvey affecting more than 20% of America's refining.
And major pipelines that ship fuel have been stopped or slowed.
But tonight these tankers refueling those stations emptied out by panic after the storm.
Analysts expect prices to jump three to five cents a day before backing up in mid-september.
Rebecca, thank you.
There's still much more ahead on "World news tonight" this Friday.
Handcuffed at the hospital.
Outrage after video shows a

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Harvey has caused an instant spike in gas prices nationwide

Next tonight, the devastation in Texas causing an instant spike in gas prices nationwide.
The largest refinery in the U.S. Shutting down.
Drivers already paying more for gas, heading into the last weekend of summer.
Here's ABC's chief business correspondent, Rebecca Jarvis.
Reporter: Tonight with much of the country's energy complex underwater, the ripple effect.
From coast to coast, gasoline prices rising and set to spike further.
Gasbuddy predicting the national average for a gallon of gas now $2.43 will increase 15 to 25 cents in coming weeks.
It's less money in my pocket.
Reporter: The storm shutting down nearly a quarter of U.S.
Refining capacity.
This Chevron plant in Baytown, Texas, inundated.
15 gulf coast refineries, including motiva, the largest in the country now shuttered.
Tom, they are changing these prices at this pump as we speak.
Hiking them and this price spike is expected to last another two to three weeks, Tom.
So many with road trips planned ahead.
All right, rebaek ka.
Thank you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Amazon and Whole Foods slash grocery prices

consumer alert.
Amazon is taking on the supermarkets by taking over whole foods and cutting prices on staples by up to 40%.
It could be the start of a major price war and Adrienne Bankert has the story.
Good morning, Adrienne.
Reporter: How excited are you that whole foods is no longer going to cost your whole paycheck, guys.
Yeah, thank you.
In Manhattan they sold completely out of some items by 6:30 P.M.
The reaction online staggering as customers enjoyed phenomenal deals.
Whole foods has had a reputation for being way too expensive.
From the looks of things that is changing.
This morning a grocery revolution that could have a direct impact on your bill.
The first changes now from that ambitious purchase by Amazon of whole foods, the chain slashing its prices in almost 500 stores Monday and up to 43% drop on some of your most popular products from bananas to avocados, apples and eggs.
Rotisserie was flying off the shelves.
Reporter: The big question will they match?
They're conventional stores.
What will happen?
They'll change.
If they don't they're out of business.
Reporter: Retail experts weighing in on whole foods and Amazon's move could set off a boom of benefits.
We're seeing price drops in whole foods.
In the long term we're going to see a lot more competition for grocery stores, especially those that cater to the high earner demographic.
Reporter: And is it megastore Walmart that Amazon and whole foods really have in their sights with these drops?
Amazon with this acquisition of whole foods and that price drop is really trying to take that market share away from Walmart, especially when it comes to grocery and they're getting very close.
Reporter: And more changes in store with Amazon's brand.
The echo on sale next to the quinoa and kale.
So it's really phenomenon flal how far prices have dropped.
Some example.
We went to a whole foods in new York City, a couple.
Fuji apple, organic kind, $3.49 a pound.
Now only $1.99 a pound.
That 43% drop and Hass avocados like the one I have in my hand here, 2.99 a pound last week.
Now they're just $1.99 a pound, 33% savings.
A lot of people saying they want their avocado toast and guacamole.
Now you can have a lot.
It will depend on the store as to what the price drops will be but you'll see a lot of those sale signs and I think everybody will be happy about it.
The lines will be even longer than they already are.
That's the thing.
We talked to some people would said that there was stuff that was cleared out yesterday and a lot of people going for the avocados.
Those price, it's worth it.
Worth standing in line.
It is true, everybody always says that joke the whole foods whole paycheck.
I'm glad you pointed that out.
Not anymore.
No more.
Thank you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Gas prices expected to rise as Hurricane Harvey passes over oil refineries

Not only is this a big test.
For the president is also.
Potentially big blow for the US economy that's correct because as we know many of our US oil refineries are there in the gulf and they are also taking a beating so we had.
ABC's Rebecca Jarvis here to talk about the massive economic impact this is having on the region and across the country that's right Amy and Dan and one of the things that you'll see from all of this as well there's a huge Schuman tool an emotional hole on many.
There is an economic hole on every one in the country and that's because of the location that it's happening here this is the heart.
Of our energy patch 45%.
Of our country's refining capacity exists there in the Gulf of Mexico a third of that capacity is right in the ranged where this storm is hitting.
And gasoline prices are projected to climb anywhere from five cents to 25 cents a gallon.
Throughout the country and 25 cents would be on the end where if a refinery actually gets hit many of them are shuttered for the moment if one gets hit destroyed.
That's where you would really see the bigger spike in prices.
Also on that human told side of things housing so many of these highly populated areas are going to face housing challenges 200000.
Homes at least.
In the path of this storm.
And the estimates right now are that anywhere from one to two billion dollars in damage could be done shortly from the wind and storm that doesn't even include the flooding to.
That's when you love your sorry we're twelve years out from from Katrina where several years up from sandy in this area and people are still recover from both of those storms right now.
And this is what homeowner see every time there's a terrible storm the time that it takes to recover is much longer than the storm itself.
Well Rebecca we certainly appreciate we know that the flood damage wasn't included in that and we know that is the biggest concern.
For so many people who are now taking care of people who were in the storm zone it's the flooding we're worried about as you said earlier it's the water that kills as well.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Flood insurance is on people's minds again after hurricanes Harvey in Texas and Irma in Florida.
Roy Wright, the director of the National Flood Insurance Program, has been pushing to make changes to the system, which is overseen by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
The flood insurance program was criticized after Hurricanes Sandy and Katrina as not being as responsive as it should be to disasters and floods as they happen, though Congress is likely to reauthorize the insurance program before it expires Sept. 30.
Another issue is the lower numbers of homeowners taking out flood insurance policies.
An investigation by The Associated Press found that the number of flood insurance policies nationwide has fallen roughly 10 percent since 2012.
Wright says he wants more people to have coverage, wants to persuade more communities to limit construction in high-risk flood zones.
If you are in a flood, he says, take "photos, photos, photos."
Wright spoke with The AP after Hurricane Harvey hit Texas.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
Q: Why have we seen a drop-off in people buying flood insurance?
A: I would tell you that choices related to insurance coverage are pocketbook decisions made by homeowners and residents like renters every single year.
Some of them required to do so by their mortgage holder.
FEMA has a responsibility to make sure people know what their risk is.
Q: How much more flood coverage do we need as a country?
A: Collectively, we need to see the coverage in this country for flood insurance at least doubled.
We have 5 million policies right now.
I want to see 10 million policies.
Q: What type of changes do we need to see for the National Flood Insurance Program as it comes up for reauthorization at the end of the month?
A: Today, the terms and conditions in the standard flood insurance policy are set in regulation.
I have to go through a complete rule-making process to actually change the coverages.
That's an antiquated way to do this.
Congress should direct me to handle that through a direct policy process so that we can be responsive to the kind of coverages that people need.
When they do that, I can go back and add things, like basement coverages that people want, additional living expenses that people want.
There's a set of those kinds of coverages that would be available if you were doing the other changes to your homeowners policy.
Also right now the way our product is set up, you have two separate deductibles, one on your contents, one on your structure.
I want to move to a single deductible.
Again, these are the consumer-friendly ways that can get us farther down the road to more coverage.
Q: If you are hit by a flood like for the people in Houston what should you do?
A: The first thing they should do, insured or not, they should register with FEMA.
They should go to disasterassistance.gov or call our 1-800 number and make sure that they register.
If they have flood insurance, they should file a claim by calling their agent or company.
They should go to their house and take pictures.
I want photos, photos, photos.
Walk through, video everything.
Anything that you think is valuable that you want covered through your policy, make sure you have taken a picture of it.
Then begin to take the steps to remediate your home.
I've issued instructions that when claims come in, we can release up to the first $10,000 quickly for those insured survivors.
I want to get the money into people's hands because those who did make that decision to purchase flood insurance, I want to make sure that they have the resources in hand to recover quickly.
If they don't have flood insurance, they're going to register with FEMA as well, and many of them will be looking at the disaster recovery loans that are offered by the Small Business Administration.
Transcript for Bridgewater hedge fund manager Ray Dalio talks investing, leadership

Hey guys welcome to reeled is happy Friday I'm Rebecca Jarvis the chief business technology and economics correspondent at ABC news and we have a great guest here with us today.
Rate valeo he is the founder of Bridgewater.
Associates which is the largest hedge fund in the world a 160.
Billion dollars under management and he is also the author.
Of this awesome new book it's called principles.
And it takes us on a road trip through your life through all of these stories all of these lessons learned along the way.
You starting your work behind.
From your two bedroom apartment here in New York City 1975.
Welcome to real biz.
Tell us about the book tell us about the inspiration and why he would write something like this today.
I wanted to writer because.
I wanted to pass along.
Just different things that I learned in order to be successful.
What I did.
Was every time I was in the situation.
I would write down the criteria for making a decision.
And so like created this collection of principles over a period of time when in this type of situation that type of situation what to do.
Then and I didn't want.
Publicity I wanna be private but in 2000 they we and to spend the financial crisis.
And we did well and we received a lot of attention because of the way that we think differently.
And it was misunderstood.
Generally.
So I put the principles that I wrote on line there was downloaded about three and a half million times and received a lot of thank you notes.
And now I'm at a stage of my life while making the transition.
I'm making the transition from political the second stage of my life took the third stage in my life.
You know I think that it's that one was elected three stages basis.
In the first stage of your life your dependent on others and you learn.
In the second stage of your life fewer weren't working.
And others are dependent on you.
And then you get to assert import pictures successful and you're no longer interest it and being more successful yourself.
The thing that you want to do was make other people successful it's like your parents at a certain age you want to make the other people successful.
And 2017.
Is really my transition year.
For the set second stage of my life with the third stage and wildlife.
And I had this cookbook of recipes so to speak that when I was operating in that and various circumstances.
I would use and it it's been miraculous.
It's been so it helps people understand each in other words by writing down a principal.
We've been able would have better understandings with the people I work went.
And we've also been able to convert them and algorithms.
That means that the computers are making decisions with us.
So it's been very very impact fool and so the main reason I'm passing along his own want to pass along what I've learned that's been helpful.
In order to help of the people.
I also hope.
That it will encourage other people too bright they are principally because not just my principles whatever the recipes for success are.
If you would have think can I get the principles for I wish Steve Jobs I was Einstein I wish all of those people.
Wrote their recipes when I was encountering something what what I do at that moment.
You know so if others right principles.
We'll also know.
How to deal with each you know I think to be principal I think right now in the country.
We have to think what is being principles what principles.
Bind us together what divide us.
Can we be clear about those and walked the talk for all those reasons I felt it was compelled to pass them along.
Were any taking questions from all of you so if you do have questions feel free to leave them in the comment section something that you write about.
In in the book ray.
That I really respect is this idea that the right answer might not be the answer that you come to you but you're looking for the right answer can come from anywhere.
And to your point about finding the right principles.
There are a lot of Smart people in this world in there are ways to reverse engineer success by looking at what they've done by looking at what you've done.
How did you make yourself open.
And maybe it was in that sort of first to second stage in life how did you.
Make yourself open as a leader who.
Need to be trusted needed to be seen as the person with the vision but also be open to taking ideas from elsewhere.
Misstates.
The power of mistakes.
In the talk about this as well will this is how I learned.
And so it was of a changing moment and in 1982.
I had put the greatest failure of my life.
A head in two stated that they were there.
Our country's wouldn't be able pay their don't expect that the banks and so on and it turned out to be right about that got a lot of tension for that.
On Wall Street greed congress asked me testify in all of this.
And I thought one when they would have that bank defaults Mexico defaulted on its debt and on August.
I thought than we were going to have an economic problem and we did have a debt problem but we didn't have an economic problem the exact.
Bottom in the stock market I thought things were.
Going to collapse and they went all right and I was so wrong.
That I had to let everybody ago.
And I got down to the point where I was so broke that I had to borrow 4000 dollars from that.
To help pay for my family's expenses and things.
And it was incredibly painful moment.
But it was the best thing maybe that ever happened one of the best things.
Because.
As I reflected on that it changed my attitude rather than thinking I'm right I started asked myself satellite no one.
It gave me the humility that I needed to balance with my audacity.
It made me asked that question.
How to one knows them right and it gave me an open mindedness what I think is one of the greatest tragedies of mankind.
And it's because it's so easily fixed is that people have in their minds.
Their own.
Opinions.
That are often wrong.
The best opinion may not be the one in your head and so what if you start to think.
How to Lenovo.
Right and you go out and stress tests that opinion and yeah do it in an open minded way.
And you take in things all of a sudden you realize that you can have the best thinking of anyone around you.
And so the important thing is to be right but it doesn't have to come from you the idea in your head right and that led me to create an idea and their credit company reports.
I wanted to.
Brightest independent thinkers who would challenge feature each other to create an idea meritocracy.
And eyes I describe in the book.
You know how that meritocracy working and that's basically just three things.
First everybody's got to put their honest thoughts on the table to look at yes of people don't do that right so you have to encourage right.
So put the honest thoughts on second.
You have Stewart and Julian value thoughtful disagreement not view it is conflict.
Right OK you can't have that thing in your style make.
I'm comfortable with the conflict you have to go with the conflict and allow it to happen.
It is Reverend Wright.
Is there an opportunity to learn.
How can I do how could we collectively make a better decision than we do individually.
And then third.
If used if that's still doesn't resolve it.
You have to have idea America credit worries of getting past that disagreement.
In other words know who knows and knows we have what we call believability waited decision.
And that has been the key to the success.
Cause the power.
Of getting the best ideas and collectively working.
And that humility that fear of being wrong raises the probability of being right.
That's been the key so one of the key elements here is to do that you know but.
They eat the book is filled with a lot of those kinds of suggestions that if you can operate with this principle that as the State's these various recipes and lots of things.
Well what I like about it is it's taking whoever you are and it optimizing it because this well while you have played in the field of finance throughout your life.
This is the kind of user manual that anybody who's a manager whether your.
Starting a new company that deals in widgets or you're running a restaurant.
Or you are hoping to someday do one of those things or anything frankly as a leader this is a guide book and it starting point for people.
Yes and I found from a lot of of the people's reactions I believe it's true for me.
It is even be on that.
It's any relationship.
OK it's any relationship or it's even just figuring out yourself and what is the right way to make decisions.
The rich and well.
That's what that's what the word principles mean.
Yeah right how do you deal with reality to get what you want effectively.
And there's only two things you need to do to be successful.
You need to know what the best decisions are on you have to have the courage to make them.
And when you start to realize that what you have in your head may not be the best and and get it wherever it is.
It's powerful for you whatever does life.
Would of the decisions you're making.
Totally agree OK we have got questions.
Okay Matt asks what's your favorite recipe and haircut.
Are there a lot of different recipes.
But again just building on this thing I would say.
Think for yourself.
No way.
That you don't know.
OK you don't all know all the things that you need to.
So to be able to have that radical open mindedness.
To know your weaknesses.
And to know what to do about.
They're only five things you need to do really.
In order to get what you want the first thing is you have to have your audacious goals.
You you have to do when you're going to your goals.
You're going to and challenging your problems in your failures.
You have to die knows those problems to get at their root causes.
And those root causes may be weaknesses you or mistakes that you see you have to embrace those.
And look at those who I have a week and then you have to design your way out of whatever that weaknesses or whatever that mistake is to get around that problem.
And that may include if you have a weakness to be able to work with people who were strong where you or we can't.
And then with that design.
To then pushed through to results XQ that is so.
And other words.
Know what you don't know yes and no had to deal with it recognize.
That what you don't know is much greater than what you do know.
My daddy used to always say the more you know the more you know you don't that's right.
Right and so knowing how to deal with your not knowing not not embrace your weaknesses.
Know them figure out how to deal with them and do that collectively.
It's very powerful.
So how do you think about this what your hiring and how do you diagnosed.
And another person sitting across Romeo and determine whether or not they're aware those five things and that they would work out the team will not the people normally are not used to being in an environment in which there's that.
Radicals straightforward news and and dealing with those things.
And you talk about your honesty and realizing along the way that sometimes that radical honesty.
Didn't always go the way that you are expecting it to.
Right.
So the way we deal with it is we try to explain that explain in the book.
It's explained before they come we show people what the environments like a chilling videos.
You know we take everything for everybody to see.
We take everything for everybody to see.
OK so that that's way you have to have an idea meritocracy.
So because of people can't see things that you form their own opinion and right so we'll show them what it's like.
And then they make an intellectual decision.
They want this and then they come in because.
You know.
I guess there would described bridge ordered one sentence or hostess it's an idea meritocracy.
In which the goals or equally to have meaningful work and meaningful relationships.
The relationships part is as much the reward.
I and to do that we need to be radical truthful witness and radical transparency.
Because of what you can have an idea meritocracy.
And that's been the magic formula so weak weak first say you wanna do it intellectually.
It's like going into the Navy SEALs you might say I want to do it can't hurt you up for this and then you go in and you experience it.
And people go through an adjustment process and it typically takes about eighteen months all behavior modification typically takes about eighteen months.
Of getting used to it.
About a third of the people it's not for you know it just doesn't work out.
For that reason.
About the majority of people once they get to that perspective of having this transparency they could speak up vacancy that they want people can.
Communicate their protocols for having real idea meritocracy.
Then they don't want to work anywhere else.
Because they have relationships but they also know that there's office politics.
You know normally.
Behind the C rights at all.
You don't know what somebody's thinking about.
Velocity two years that's not the same here.
So there's a transition team and so it's from the answer your question.
It's from the beginning of exploiting it it's by showing of the videos it's by having toe in the water rates by going there fighting out of its right.
And then they have all.
Witty line it's all part of the evolutionary process right.
It's part of self discovery.
I don't think there's probably anybody that I know who's gone to company Bridgewater.
Who hasn't found it fabulous self discovery process I guarantee you it interest.
And if fruits and if it's for you it's phenomenal it's like getting fit it's a you know I was thinking.
Yeah it's sort Europe.
Nobody likes to exercise.
You know ward the diet or whatever may be that's necessary to do that but to have behavior change and make you feel more effective.
It's great.
So anyway that's different reactions.
Great answer.
And how I like that questions of Isabel was asking.
For those of you out there.
Where to the principles come from early life teaching.
Our principles come from interacting with reality.
And then reflecting on those interactions.
I've an expression.
I think it is Georgian troops that I experience.
Plus reflection.
Equals progress.
And what I mean is if you're doing something wrong.
You're gonna get communicated by pain and if you're successful.
You're not gonna change.
But it in the pain and on this day.
There's probably a lesson so washed my attitude stored to change whenever I would make a painful mistake.
I would think of it is a puzzle.
That would give me a jab.
If I could solve the pots and the puzzle was.
What would be the principles that I would use so that when I encountered the same situation again.
I would have a better result.
And the jab.
Would be that principle to have a better results and by writing them down.
So why thing.
That you are very systematic about your approach Yahoo!
This isn't a Willy Nilly reflection of going over the same pot again in the getting good.
Doesn't stick.
If so it seemed like they come from or.
Encounters with reality.
Particularly painful encounters if you loosen there's okay.
It's screaming at you.
That you need a principle to don't doing the same thing again.
And if you ride it down this is like thirty years of writing these.
Okay and then you look at it with people and you communicate with people is that a good way of dealing with that thing.
And edit and then one another one comes law.
As the same things happen over and over gray.
When another one comes along and you look at that principle or even when you're dealing with people you together agree on that study only a lose lose situation.
It compounds.
And it and that's where to build them they the principles that's most effective way.
I want it there's so many places I could go with this but I want to talk to a little bit about current events and what's happening in the world.
A question that I frequently get from people were looking up the market now the Dow the S&P 500 have hit new all time highs it seems like almost every other day this year.
Based on article at you mentioned that the world feels like 1930s.
Yup yup.
Where do you think we are in this current cycle and can it really last when.
Companies like apple and Amazon and FaceBook are 30% of the growth we've seen in stock so far.
Links but why it's very similar in 1937.
In we had a debt crisis in 2000 and day and in that period we had interest rates come down to zero.
And that was like 1933.
32 when interest rates it is a reaction to the Great Depression that's right.
And then there's the Federal Reserve in both of those cases the only time this century up.
Printed a lot of money and bought a lot of financial assets and so from the bought 2000.
Until the present.
Just like from 1932.
Until 1937.
Asset prices went up a lot of money supplies increased Wright what more money supply and the economy's rebound in him okay.
But that rebound.
Had a two tier economy read it it it there was one economy that did grates or if you look at measures like.
The unemployment rate and if you look at the stock market and so on that spot.
But if you divide the economy into two parts you see that there's two very different parts to Africa.
To put that in perspective the top 110 of 1% of our populations now worth.
Is equal to the 90%.
Combined the bottom 90% c'mon.
If you look at the bottom 60% of the population.
They have miserable existence economy has not worked for hasn't had any glee at having rat wages haven't gone up and.
And yeah percent of the country doesn't have a 401K or any kind of backed notes.
The aggregate no sense and worse than that.
It's the only.
Place in the world we're death rate to rise in another words.
Combination of opiates.
Suicide.
And other words bad economy he just carved out that 60% economy.
That's a very bad economy and so we have.
Just like the 1935.
To forty period.
And so we have that gap.
That's the biggest issue of our time it's reflected in the elections OK it's a big issue.
If the economy was to have a downturn.
Yesterday.
It would be a lot of anger that would be a wealth conflict that would be a social conflict between political con right.
So add were also what the point 1937.
Was the point where they stopped pushing those interest rates and.
Roderick there is now hiking they're not buying their their peeling back on on their purchases of asset write.
And so we are now in a situation.
In which we this Federal Reserve has got to be very careful.
The written because.
First.
All assets are sensitive to interest rate changes.
And we have a more leverage economy have that polarity.
So as we move forward.
The less of them 1930s.
It doesn't mean we have to repeat 1930s.
But the lesson of 1937.
Is with those large obligations.
And with that.
And there is in a symmetric risk on the down side and so to be careful about tightening monetary policy.
Because if you ask the Federal Reserve they can't explain the relationship between unemployment and inflation.
Ray okay.
What we won't really don't have inflation right now even though the unemployment rate has gone down in the one thing.
That you heard from fed chair Janet Yellen multiple times in the last.
Press conference earlier this week.
They can't really figure out why inflation isn't going up.
List you can't figure it out okay I have my own what you need to carry.
But I think that they're defining labor as unemployment.
Rather than the new world labor and think about it is a combination of technologies for good that is almost robots.
And technology competing with people and now what is the work force.
And the competition.
Between technology.
Other words what's happening now.
Is that as algorithms.
Are built they start to replace a lot of jobs estimated that over than you know next.
Twenty years we could lose about 40% of our work.
Yet you talked about it competent artificial intelligence algorithms automation all of those things can run have an impact of very significant want it.
Well it's not if it'd happen.
So when we look at this if the Federal Reserve does not know why flee his rise it okay.
And the risks array symmetric on downs are okay because it's so much easier.
To you know that tightening monetary policies that work causes a lot of debt when you raise interest rates.
You know that the brakes were on hand but if you're close to zero on interest rates and you've done a lot of quantitative easing.
And also asset prices have gone up in their very interest rates.
If you know all those things that you know it's not as easy on that it's a symmetric on the downside also socially and politically.
So wait at least until you see more sides of inflation.
Before worrying about the tightening of monetary policy that's the lesson of 1937.
The let in 1937 that was a small tightening set the stock market down 50% and caused a lot of social conflict.
That was the thing so be careful it's analogous to 1937.
So and I know we have to wrap things up here but what do you think about the fact that it very likely we'll see the Fed hike interest rates in December and then three more times next year from what they've signal is that.
If if all things are steady as they are at this moment if everything was held constant as they are at this moment.
And the Fed does exactly what it has signaled it will do.
Where do you think that puts us an okay spot or in a dangerous place.
I think that would be in a dangerous placed on the other hand let me say they're for the last I would say.
22 and a half years.
The Fed gave such indications before right and they haven't necessarily make that they didn't do any bat.
Okay they did they didn't do less lower right because.
As they.
Were feeling their way along.
They were they saw that that would not be a good move in hand so I believe that the picture that the Fed is painting.
In terms of its combination of interest rates are letting the balance sheet Ron down.
Will be not what they will end up doing probably.
Because I think that would be too tight at a dangerous time so I don't think they'll do that.
But time will tell.
Last question everybody.
Worst advice you received your career.
Make people.
Love they should make people happy.
I think I should I think I should help people be successful.
And that sometimes.
Happiness in that move that in the moment mood.
Is something that is the opposite you know the world is made up of first order consequences and second water yes.
And often the first to water consequences.
Eat something that tastes good.
Good in the moment that type of mentality commit necessarily pay off in the long run a lot of the time in actually so.
Think about what you.
You know.
Think about what is going to be what you really want and think about the second order consequences to get what you want.
Because we have two brains and harboring rail and we have the thoughtful part of our brain and it pre frontal cortex port thoughtful.
And then we have that emotional.
And emotional so wonderful thing but there are two types of emotions those that'll harm us and those are really that all what we want inspiration.
You know all of those good ones and to know that there's a great trick in life.
And that great trick of life is that those first order consequences.
That are the emotional ones can get us in trouble.
I believe that to be true so I would say that you know the worst is look beyond the first order consequences.
Fantastic rate Elliott thank you so much for joining us thank you it was really an interesting conversation the book is called principal.
Amazon might be sold out right now so if you're going.
Well put year old lottery and you're he'll be on the top of the list that'll come it's been and allot them and so.
If it'll get there which is phenomenal so culprits irate Alley a thank you so much street for stopping by thank you and have a great weekend everybody be well.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
The major U.S. stock indexes wavered in early trading Friday as losses by technology companies mostly outweighed gains by oil companies.
Financial stocks also headed lower as bond yields declined.
Oil prices were flat.
KEEPING SCORE: The Standard & Poor's 500 index was down less than 1 point to 2,500 as of 10:18 a.m. Eastern Time.
The Dow Jones industrial average added 2 points to 22,361.
The Nasdaq composite slid less than 1 point to 6,422.
The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks added 1 point, or 0.1 percent, to 1,445.
NORTH KOREA: Geopolitical tensions ratcheted up after President Donald Trump authorized stiffer sanctions in response to North Korea's nuclear weapons advances, drawing a furious response from Pyongyang.
Trump expanded the Treasury Department's ability to target anyone conducting significant trade in goods, services or technology with North Korea, and to ban them from interacting with the U.S. financial system.
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un retaliated by calling Trump "deranged" and saying he'll "pay dearly" for his threats.
BOND MARKET: Bond prices rose as tensions with North Korea escalated.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury slipped to 2.25 percent from 2.28 percent late Thursday.
BIG DECLINERS: Technology companies and banks were among the biggest decliners.
Apple was down $1.87, or 1.2 percent, to $151.52.
Synchrony Financial slipped 18 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $29.08.
ROCKY OUTLOOK: Compass Minerals slid 8.5 percent after the mining company cut its annual profit forecast after a partial ceiling cave-in at a rock salt mine in Ontario that will slow operations for six weeks.
The stock was down $5.87 to $63.63.
DIAL-A-DEAL: Sprint climbed 3.6 percent after Reuters reported the wireless carrier is close to signing a deal with rival T-Mobile.
Shares in Sprint added 29 cents to $8.32.
T-Mobile gained 92 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $64.31.
IN GEAR: CarMax rose 5.5 percent after the used car retailer's latest quarterly results beat analysts' forecasts.
The stock gained $3.80 to $72.64.
ENERGY: Benchmark U.S. crude was up 5 cents to $50.60 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Brent crude, used to price international oils, added 25 cents to $56.34 a barrel in London.
CURRENCIES: The dollar weakened to 111.89 yen from 112.55 yen on Thursday.
The euro climbed to $1.1970 from $1.1934.
MARKETS OVERSEAS: Germany's DAX slipped 0.1 percent, while France's CAC 40 gained 0.3 percent.
Britain's FTSE 100 rose 0.7 percent.
In Asia, markets finished unevenly after S&P downgraded the credit rating for China and Hong Kong.
Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225 slipped 0.3 percent, while South Korea's Kospi lost 0.7 percent.
Hong Kong's Hang Seng shed 0.8 percent.
Mazda is recalling more than 60,000 midsize cars in the U.S. and Canada because a wiring problem can knock out power-assisted steering and the passenger air bag.
The recall covers Mazda 6 sedans from 2015 and 2016.
The company says in documents posted by the U.S. government that wires under the front passenger seat can rub against welding debris, causing them to short.
A loss of power-assisted steering can increase the risk of a crash, although none have been reported.
Owners should see multiple warning lights if the problem happens.
Dealers will inspect the cars and install insulating tape or a protective pad to shield the wires.
The recall is expected to start on Sept. 29.
J.C. Penney says it plans to hire more than 40,000 people during the holiday season, the same number as last year.
The Plano, Texas-based department store operator said Friday it is looking for cashiers, workers to restock its stores and beauty consultants to work at in-store Sephora makeup shops.
Retailers tend to start hiring in October to prepare for the busy holiday shopping season.
Macy's, which has about 830 stores, says it expects to hire 80,000 people this year, down 4 percent from a year ago.
And Target says it will boost hiring 40 percent to 100,000 this year for its more than 1,800 stores.
J.C. Penney Co. says it will hold a nationwide job fair in its roughly 875 stores on Oct. 17.
The latest on developments in financial markets (All times local):

9:35 a.m.

Stocks are opening slightly lower on Wall Street as technology companies and banks decline.
Apple fell another 1 percent early Friday as investors give a tepid reception to its new lineup of iPhones.
Financial stocks are down as bond yields decline.
Bank of America lost 1.2 percent.
Sprint jumped 4 percent after Reuters reported it was getting close to signing a deal with T-Mobile.
The Standard & Poor's 500 slipped 2 points, or 0.1 percent, to 2,498.
The Dow Jones industrials fell 13 points, or 0.1 percent, to 22,343.
The Nasdaq lost 7 points, or 0.1 percent, to 6,415.
Bond prices rose as tensions with North Korea escalated.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury fell to 2.25 percent.
World stocks were subdued on Friday after North Korea said it could test a hydrogen bomb in the Pacific Ocean, though European markets were supported by upbeat economic data.
KEEPING SCORE: Britain's FTSE 100 rose 0.2 percent to 7,275 and Germany's DAX rose by the same rate to 12,624.
France's CAC 40 gained 0.3 percent to 5,284.
Wall Street was poised to open lower.
Dow futures shed 0.1 percent and the broader S&P 500 futures lost 0.2 percent.
SANCTIONS: Geopolitical tensions ratcheted up after U.S. President Donald Trump authorized stiffer new sanctions in response to North Korea's nuclear weapons advances, drawing a furious response from Pyongyang.
Trump's administration said it would punish foreign companies dealing with the North, including by expanding the Treasury Department's ability to ban anyone from interacting with the U.S. financial system.
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un retaliated by calling Trump "deranged" and saying he'll "pay dearly" for his threats, while Kim's foreign minister reportedly said the country might plan to test a hydrogen bomb in the Pacific Ocean.
EUROBOOM: European stocks were supported by a survey that showed the eurozone economy accelerated at the end of the third quarter.
Financial information company IHS Markit said its main gauge of the eurozone's business activity, the so-called purchasing managers' index, jumped to a four-month high of 56.7 points in September, a whole point above the previous months' rate.
The firm's chief business economist Chris Williamson says that points to a high quarterly economic growth rate of 0.7 percent.
CHINA RATING: In Asia, investors were digesting Standard & Poor's downgrade of China's credit rating after markets closed Thursday.
Citing rising debt levels, S&P lowered its sovereign rating by one notch, to A from AA-, saying credit growth increased China's economic and financial risks.
Then it cut Hong Kong's rating Friday, citing risks posed by close ties between mainland China and the Asian financial center.
The downgrade underscores challenges faced by China's Communist leaders as they cope with slowing growth in the world's No.
2 economy.
ASIA'S DAY: Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225 slipped 0.3 percent to close at 20,296.45 and South Korea's Kospi lost 0.7 percent to 2,388.71.
Hong Kong's Hang Seng shed 0.8 percent to 27,880.53 and the Shanghai Composite fell 0.2 percent to 3,352.53.
Australia's S&P/ASX 200 added 0.5 percent to 5,675.70.
Taiwan's benchmark fell and Southeast Asian indexes were mostly lower.
ENERGY: Oil futures were down.
Benchmark U.S. crude shed 12 cents to $50.43 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
The contract fell 14 cents, or 0.3 percent, to settle at $50.55 a barrel on Thursday.
Brent crude, used to price international oils, fell 2 cents to $56.41 a barrel in London.
CURRENCIES: The dollar weakened to 112.03 yen from 112.49 yen in late trading Thursday.
The euro climbed to $1.1965 from $1.1940.
Most Asian stock markets fell Friday as investors turned cautious following new U.S. sanctions targeting North Korea and a China credit rating downgrade.
KEEPING SCORE: Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225 slipped 0.4 percent to 20,273.26 and South Korea's Kospi lost 0.7 percent to 2,389.83.
Hong Kong's Hang Seng shed 0.8 percent to 27,877.19 and the Shanghai Composite fell 0.5 percent to 3,341.72.
Australia's S&P/ASX 200 edged up 0.4 percent to 5,675.70.
Taiwan's benchmark fell and Southeast Asian indexes were mostly lower.
SANCTIONS: Geopolitical tensions ratcheted up after U.S. President Donald Trump authorized stiffer new sanctions in response to North Korea's nuclear weapons advances, drawing a furious response from Pyongyang.
Trump's administration said it would punish foreign companies dealing with the North, including by expanding the Treasury Department's ability to ban anyone from interacting with the U.S. financial system.
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un retaliated by calling Trump "deranged" and saying he'll "pay dearly" for his threats, while Kim's foreign minister reportedly said the country might plan to test a hydrogen bomb in the Pacific Ocean.
CHINA RATING: Markets in Asia were getting their first chance to react to Standard & Poor's announcement late Thursday that it was downgrading China's credit rating, citing rising debt levels.
S&P lowered its sovereign rating by one notch, to A from AA-, saying credit growth increased China's economic and financial risks.
Then it cut Hong Kong's rating Friday, citing risks posed by close ties between mainland China and the Asian financial center.
The downgrade underscores challenges faced by China's Communist leaders as they cope with slowing growth in the world's No.
2 economy.
MARKET VIEW: "S&P's decision to cut China's credit rating yesterday looks like a case of bad timing, as China has already begun the long and difficult process of tackling reforms and leverage," said Rob Carnell, head of Asia research at ING.
He and other analysts noted the downgrade came ahead of next month's twice-a-decade Communist Party congress.
Beijing wants markets to remain stable for the meeting, where top leaders will be reshuffled and policy plans get laid out.
WALL STREET: Major U.S. benchmarks ended lower.
The Standard & Poor's 500 index lost 0.3 percent to 2,500.60.
The Dow Jones industrials fell 0.2 percent to 22,359.23.
The Nasdaq composite lost 0.5 percent to 6,422.69.
ENERGY: Oil futures were mixed.
Benchmark U.S. crude added 8 cents to $50.63 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
The contract fell 14 cents, or 0.3 percent, to settle at $50.55 a barrel on Thursday.
Brent crude, used to price international oils, fell 3 cents to $56.06 a barrel in London.
CURRENCIES: The dollar weakened to 111.78 yen from 112.49 yen in late trading Thursday.
The euro climbed to $1.1955 from $1.1940.
The Securities and Exchange Commission waited until Wednesday to disclose a hack of its corporate filing system that occurred last year.
The disclosure raises questions about the agency's ability to protect important financial information and comes as Americans are still weighing the consequences of the massive hack at Equifax.
The SEC, the federal agency responsible for protecting investors and ensuring markets function properly, is under fire after disclosing the hack of its electronic network that whisks company news and data to investors.
The breach occurred despite repeated warnings in recent years about weaknesses in the agency's cybersecurity controls.
Experts question the length of time taken to disclose the breach, and why the SEC isn't meeting the same security standards it demands of corporate America.
"Public companies have a clear obligation to disclose material information about cyber risks and cyber events.
I expect them to take this requirement seriously," SEC Chairman Jay Clayton warned in a speech in July.
While it discovered the breach to its corporate filing system last year, the agency says it only became aware last month that information obtained by the intruders may have been used for illegal trading profits.
"It took quite a while," said Robert Cattanach, an attorney at Dorsey & Whitney and former trial attorney for the Justice Department, whose work includes cybersecurity and data breaches.
"The integrity of our whole trading system is dependent on keeping this information secure.
... People have got some 'splaining to do."
The SEC didn't explain why the initial hack was not revealed sooner, or which individuals or companies may have been affected.
The disclosure came two months after a government watchdog said deficiencies in the corporate filing system put the system, and the information it contains, at risk.
The agency also didn't disclose any information about who might have carried out the breach.
A hack by Chinese or Russian actors can't be ruled out, experts say.
"Certainly state actors would be on the list of suspects that come to mind," said Marcus Christian, a former federal prosecutor who is an attorney working in Mayer Brown's cybersecurity and national security practices.
Still, he added, the list also would include "regular old criminal actors."
U.S. prosecutors in Manhattan brought criminal charges last December against three Chinese traders, accusing them of using nonpublic information stolen from two New York law firms to rack up nearly $3 million in illegal profits.
The SEC filed a similar civil action, marking the first time the agency laid charges of hacking into a law firm's computer network.
The confidential information was said to be linked to clients of the firm considering mergers or acquisitions.
Clayton disclosed the hack in a statement posted to the SEC's website.
It comes just two weeks after the credit agency Equifax revealed a stunning cyberattack that exposed highly sensitive personal information of 143 million people.
Clayton is scheduled to appear Tuesday before the Senate Banking Committee, and he is certain to be questioned about the hack.
Democratic Sen. Mark Warner of Virginia, a member of the committee, said in a statement Thursday that the disclosures by the SEC and Equifax show "that government and businesses need to step up their efforts to protect our most sensitive personal and commercial information."
The SEC chief blamed the breach on "a software vulnerability" in the filing system known as EDGAR, short for Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system.
EDGAR processes more than 1.7 million electronic filings a year.
Those documents can cause enormous movements in the stock market, sending billions of dollars into motion in fractions of a second.
Clayton, a Wall Street attorney appointed by President Donald Trump to the SEC post, said the agency has been assessing its cybersecurity since he took over as chairman in May.
Experts note, however, that both agency and congressional investigators have been critical for years of the SEC's handling of its information technology security.
Early this decade, the SEC inspector general's office uncovered security lapses involving SEC staffers who examined the data-protection systems of the stock exchanges.
Some of the staffers used unencrypted laptops to store sensitive exchange information  and then carried the laptops to a Las Vegas conference for information-security professionals that is known to attract hackers.
The 2011-12 investigation raised concerns of a potential breach of the exchanges' information.
David Weber, a professor at the University of Maryland's business school and a former assistant SEC inspector general for investigations, worked on that probe.
The agency "clearly has not held itself to the same standard that it expects regulated companies to adhere to" and "needs to up its game," he said in an interview Thursday.
In 2015, an impostor slipped through the EDGAR filing system with a bogus $8 billion takeover bid for Avon Products.
The stock rocketed 20 percent, but it quickly dropped, burning anyone who'd bought shares of the cosmetics giant at pumped-up prices.
The SEC later sued a Bulgarian investor for allegedly orchestrating bogus acquisition bids for Avon and two other companies.
The hack of EDGAR is especially concerning because of how widely investors have used and trusted the system, which first came online in the early 1990s.
Companies periodically file earnings and a range of financial information, and they alert investors to important developments that could affect their share prices, like government investigations, executive shake-ups and approaches for a takeover.
Some experts say gaining access to the system is too easy and the SEC should consider stricter vetting, though they caution that doing so wouldn't guarantee blocking scammers from getting through.
Experts say stricter requirements could include passwords, personal ID, secret questions and answers, security tokens that continuously flash new ID numbers, fingerprints, eye scans or voice recognition.
Tiffany & Co. has named industry veteran Roger Farah as chairman, effective Oct. 2.
Farah, 64, joined the upscale jeweler's board in March and had served in leadership roles at Ralph Lauren Corp., Venator Group Inc., among others.
The move is part of a management overhaul pushed by activist investor Janna Partners to revitalize sales at Tiffany, which has struggled with intensifying competition from online players like Amazon and Blue Nile.
It's also lost some of its luster with millennials.
In July, the New York-based company named Alessandro Bogliolo as CEO, effective October.
He is taking over for interim CEO Michael Kowalski, who reclaimed the spot when Tiffany pushed out Frederic Cumenal in February.
Farah will replace Kowalski, who has been chairman since 2002.
He will remain as a director.
___

Facebook to release Russia ads to Congress amid pressure

NEW YORK (AP)  Facebook will provide the contents of 3,000 ads bought by a Russian agency to Congress, and is also taking steps to make political advertising more transparent on its network.
Investigators have sought the Russian ads for their probes into possible Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.
Facebook's transparency moves are also important; currently, there's no way for outsiders to track political ads or for recipients to tell who is sponsoring such messages.
Allstate puts hurricane losses for August at $593 million

NEW YORK (AP)  Allstate expects insurance losses of about $593 million in August after Hurricane Harvey left a path of destruction along the Gulf Coast.
The initial accounting Thursday follows warnings from other insurers that are tallying the damages from a hurricane season that is nowhere near being over.
House Republicans plan retreat next week to discuss tax plan

WASHINGTON (AP)  House Republicans plan a retreat away from the Capitol next week to discuss a tax overhaul that congressional leaders have been working on for month.
The retreat is set for Wednesday, but Republicans aren't disclosing details.
GOP leaders have promised to publicly release outlines of their tax plan in the coming week.
The goal is to cut tax rates for individuals and corporations, and eliminate some tax breaks to pay for the cuts.
Trump piles economic action onto his NKorea military threats

NEW YORK (AP)  President Donald Trump added economic action to his fiery military threats against North Korea on Thursday, authorizing stiffer new sanctions in response to the Koreans' nuclear weapons advances.
He said China was imposing major banking sanctions, too, but there was no immediate confirmation from the North's most important trading partner.
US stocks slide, first decline for the market this week

NEW YORK (AP)  A slide in technology companies weighed on U.S. stocks Thursday, pulling the market lower for the first time this week and erasing modest gains from a day earlier.
Supermarket operators, beverage companies and other consumer staples sector stocks also declined.
Industrial companies and banks led the gainers.
Crude oil prices rebounded from an early slide.
Trading was mostly subdued as investors sized up the latest company earnings and deal news.
SEC under fire for being hacked despite warnings on security

WASHINGTON (AP)  The Securities and Exchange Commission waited until Wednesday to disclose a hack of its corporate filing system that occurred last year.
The disclosure raises questions about the agency's ability to protect important financial information and comes as Americans are still weighing the consequences of the massive hack at Equifax.
The breach occurred despite repeated warnings in recent years about weaknesses in the agency's cybersecurity controls.
May seeks to unite divided Cabinet before big Brexit speech

LONDON (AP)  Prime Minister Theresa May is trying to unite her fractious Cabinet behind her plan to reboot faltering Brexit negotiations, as a senior European Union official suggests British hopes of moving the divorce talks on to a new phase next month might be dashed.
May gathered ministers Thursday to reveal details of a speech she will deliver in Florence, Italy on Friday.
Google buys HTC's Pixel team in $1.1B bet on devices

SAN FRANCISCO (AP)  Google is biting off a big piece of device manufacturer HTC for $1.1 billion to expand its efforts to build phones, speakers and other gadgets equipped with its arsenal of digital services.
The deal announced Thursday underscores how serious Google is becoming about designing its own family of devices to compete against Apple and Amazon in a high-stakes battle to become the technological hub of people's lives.
New potential burden for Houston homeowners: higher taxes

HOUSTON (AP)  As Houston recovers from Harvey's devastating flooding, many homeowners could be asked to shoulder an added financial burden: higher taxes on the same houses they are struggling to rebuild.
Mayor Sylvester Turner has proposed a one-time increase in the city's property tax rate to help pay for mounting hurricane expenses, particularly the cost of cleaning up debris and replenishing an emergency fund.
Original Trix, made with artificial colors, is coming back

NEW YORK (AP)  Trix is back to its old tricks: The colorful cereal will once again be made with artificial dyes and ingredients, less than two years after the ingredients were banished from the cereal.
General Mills, which makes the colorful cereal, says customers asked for the old formula to come back.
It will continue to sell the artificial-free version, too.
Group wants Congress to revisit Medicaid changes

WASHINGTON (AP)  A group that represents state officials who administer Medicaid programs is telling Senate Republicans to slow down and rethink their latest health care bill.
The board of the National Association of Medicaid Directors says its members are concerned that the Senate is rushing to make major changes in health programs for low-income people  with far-reaching consequences for state budgets that aren't fully understood.
The group wants Congress to revisit Medicaid changes.
The Standard & Poor's 500 index lost 7.64 points, or 0.3 percent, to 2,500.60.
The Dow Jones industrials fell 53.36 points, or 0.2 percent, to 22,359.23.
Both indexes posted record highs on Wednesday.
The Nasdaq composite lost 33.35 points, or 0.5 percent, to 6,422.69.
The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks gave up 1.24 points, or 0.1 percent, to 1,444.18.
Benchmark U.S. crude fell 14 cents, or 0.3 percent, to settle at $50.55 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Brent crude, used to price international oils, gained 14 cents, or 0.2 percent, to $56.43 a barrel in London.
Heating oil added 1 cent to $1.82 a gallon.
Wholesale gasoline slipped 1 cent to $1.64 a gallon.
Natural gas declined 15 cents, or 4.8 percent, to $2.95 per 1,000 cubic feet.
Stocks closed slightly lower on Thursday, posting the market's first decline this week and erasing modest gains from a day earlier.
Trading was mostly subdued as investors sized up the latest company earnings and deal news.
Technology stocks declined the most.
Supermarket operators and other consumer-focused stocks also closed lower.
General Electric and other industrial companies led the gainers.
Banks also notched gains.
On Thursday:

The Standard & Poor's 500 index lost 7.64 points, or 0.3 percent, to 2,500.60.
The Dow Jones industrials fell 53.36 points, or 0.2 percent, to 22,359.23.
The Nasdaq composite lost 33.35 points, or 0.5 percent, to 6,422.69.
The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks gave up 1.24 points, or 0.1 percent, to 1,444.18.
For the week:

The S&P 500 is up 0.37 points, or 0.01 percent.
The Dow is up 90.89 points, or 0.4 percent.
The Nasdaq is down 25.78 points, or 0.4 percent.
The Russell 2000 is up 12.47 points, or 0.9 percent.
For the year:

The S&P 500 is up 261.77 points, or 11.7 percent.
The Dow is up 2,596.63 points, or 13.1 percent.
The Nasdaq is up 1,039.58 points, or 19.3 percent.
The Russell 2000 is up 87.05 points, or 6.4 percent.
Image copyright Reuters

Uber could make concessions to ensure its London operating licence is renewed, its chief in the capital says.
Tom Elvidge told a newspaper the ride-hailing app firm would "like to know what we can do", but that would require talks with Transport for London (TfL).
It came as Labour and Britain's biggest union heaped criticism on Uber - something Minister for London Greg Hands said was "astonishing".
TfL says the company is not fit to hold a private hire operator licence.
Mr Elvidge, the firm's London general manager, told the Sunday Times: "While we haven't been asked to make any changes, we'd like to know what we can do."
He added: "That requires a dialogue we sadly haven't been able to have."
A TfL spokesman said it would be inappropriate to comment further.
Uber has been asking to meet Sadiq Khan, the mayor of London, since his election in May 2016 but those requests have been rejected, according to sources close to the US company.
More than 680,000 people have signed an online petition in a bid to keep Uber operating in London after its licence expires on 30 September.
It has 21 days to appeal TfL's decision and can continue to provide its services in the capital "until the appeals process has been exhausted" - a point Mr Khan reiterated in a response to the change.org petition.
TfL made the same point in a tweet on Sunday:

TfL cited failures to report serious criminal offences, conduct sufficient background checks on drivers and other safety issues as grounds for not renewing Uber's licence.
Concessions by Uber are likely to centre on passenger safety and benefits for drivers, limits on their working hours, and holiday pay.
Despite the more conciliatory language from Mr Elvidge, Uber said in a series of tweets on Sunday that it would challenge the TfL decision "in the courts to defend the livelihoods of drivers & the consumer choice of millions of Londoners who use Uber".
"Drivers who use Uber in London are licensed by TfL and have been through the same enhanced DBS [Disclosure and Barring Service] background checks as black cab drivers.
"We have always followed TfL rules on reporting serious incidents, with a dedicated team that works closely with the Metropolitan Police."
'Bully'

However, criticism of Uber continued on Sunday, with shadow chancellor John McDonnell calling the firm "a disgrace".
He told ITV's Peston on Sunday: "Hand on heart, I don't think I've ever used Uber.
You have to abide by the law.
If the company was outside the law, what could Transport for London do?"
Unite union boss Len McCluskey said it was part of a "horrible, race-to-the-bottom culture", while TUC general secretary Frances O'Grady called Uber a "global bully boy".
But Mr Hands said it was "astonishing Labour find it so easy to condemn Uber, a company with 3.5 million users".
"Of course Uber need to meet safety standards, but Labour always take it too far and simply don't have the balanced approach the country needs at this time," he added.
Although there are apps such as Mytaxi and Gett that allow passengers to hail black cabs in London, as well as those from minicab firms such as Addison Lee, Uber has no direct rival in the capital.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Lyft replaced its pink moustache mascot with the Amp sign this year

Estonian-based Taxify was forced to suspend services just days after launching in London earlier this month because it did not have a TfL licence.
The situation is different in the US, however, where Lyft has won market share this year following a series of PR disasters by Uber that resulted in the ousting of founder Travis Kalanick as chief executive in June.
Uber's share of the US ride-hailing market has fallen from 91% in 2014 to 74.3% in August, according to data from Second Measure, which tracks credit card purchases.
Lyft has 23.4% of the market, with other apps such as Via, Juno, Gett and Sidecar on 2.2%.
The Sunday Telegraph reported that senior Lyft executives had three face-to-face meetings with TfL and City Hall officials in the past year, as well as two conference calls.
The meetings, revealed in a Freedom of Information request, do not indicate that Lyft is preparing to launch in London, however.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The Labour leader told Andrew Marr he supported workers asking for a decent public sector pay rise

Jeremy Corbyn has promised to listen to Labour members' calls to keep the UK in the EU single market - but warned it could hamper the government's ability to protect jobs and invest in industry.
The Labour leader said EU restrictions on state aid and pressure to privatise sectors like rail could cause problems.
He also predicted "a lot" of people would continue to come from the EU to work in the UK after Brexit.
Mr Corbyn was speaking on day one of the Labour conference in Brighton.
Boosted by Labour's better-than-forecast general election result in June, he told the BBC's Andrew Marr Show he wanted 10 years in office to implement Labour's agenda, saying at least two electoral terms would be needed to address challenges on housebuilding and inequality.
More than 40 senior party figures signed an open letter to the Observer urging Mr Corbyn to commit to remaining in the European single market and customs union after Brexit.
But delegates in Brighton have rejected demands from a number of constituencies for a vote on single market membership during the conference.
BBC political correspondent Iain Watson said that, in practice, it means there will be no vote on one of the most contentious issues in the party.
Labour has already said it would keep the UK in both agreements during a transitional period.
Theresa May has suggested a two-year timeframe for a transition period, but Mr Corbyn said Labour's version would last "as long as necessary".
It is "impossible" to say at this stage how long it would be, he argued.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Pro-EU protesters marched in Brighton as the Labour conference got under way

Asked about his plans beyond this period, Mr Corbyn said the "important priority" was seeking tariff-free trade access to the EU's markets, and that it was necessary to "look very carefully" at the terms of any trade deal to avoid restrictions on state aid, citing the UK's steel industry as an example.
"We need to be quite careful about the powers that we need as national governments," he said.
Mr Corbyn wants to return a number of key industries, including the railways, to public ownership, but says EU competition laws present significant obstacles to that.
One of the signatories to the letter, former minister Ben Bradshaw, told BBC News remaining in the market was "the only place we can sensibly be if we want to save the economy, end austerity and pursue the sort of vision of Britain that Jeremy Corbyn says he wants".
The customs union is the EU's tariff-free trading area, which imposes the same taxes on imports from certain countries outside the union.
The single market also includes the free movement of goods, services, capital and people.
Speaking at the Labour conference, Stephen Kinsella, a lawyer specialising in EU law, said he was "puzzled and slightly troubled" by Mr Corbyn's comments about state aid.
"I think what we see in the UK is too often government refers to EU law as an excuse, as a reason for not investing.
But it could do so, and it could do so within the law," said Mr Kinsella, who is a Labour Party member.
'Clean break'

The letter urging long-term commitment to the single market and customs union, co-ordinated by the Open Britain campaign, was signed by both Blairite and left-wing MPs, along with some prominent trade union leaders.
It said: "The supposed benefits of a clean break with the EU are a fantasy.
"The economic impact of leaving the single market would hit the most vulnerable in our society hardest."
Image copyright PA

Mr Corbyn is also facing calls to maintain the free movement of EU workers after Brexit from some Labour members, despite this being ruled out in Labour's general election manifesto.
"Manifestos evolve and change," MP Clive Lewis, one of those pushing for the matter to be debated at conference, told the Sunday Politics.
But fellow Labour MP Caroline Flint said she did not think maintaining the current arrangements "would be acceptable to British people".
Asked about free movement, Mr Corbyn said he understood "the importance of workers moving from one place to the other", but some employers had "grotesquely exploited" the system to pay EU workers very low wages.
"That has to stop.
But we have to recognise that in the future we're going to need people to work in Europe, and people from Europe are going to need to work here.
There's going to be a lot of movement."
McCluskey letter

In his Marr interview, Mr Corbyn also promised an end to the public sector pay cap.
He would not commit to the 5% increase called for by some, but promised workers a rise in line with inflation - currently 2.9% - in addition to recognition of the "sacrifice" they had made in recent years.
The Labour leader side-stepped questions about whether he would support illegal strike action by public sector workers against the cap, as backed by his ally, Unite leader Len McCluskey.
A new law requires a 50% turnout for successful strike ballots, but Unite is calling for co-ordinated action across sectors regardless of the threshold reached.
Repeatedly pressed on whether he would back unions defying the law, Mr Corbyn said: "I will be with those workers demanding a decent pay rise."
But speaking on Sky News, Labour's deputy leader Tom Watson said the party would not back unions in such circumstances.
"I have actually received a letter from Len McCluskey this week where he says he accepts Labour MPs aren't going to support calls for illegal strike action," he said.
Mr McCluskey confirmed that was the case, saying he did not expect support from the party's leadership or any of its MPs.
"I know that they are opposed to the current law and they will do all that they can inside Parliament to change this law," he told ITV's Peston on Sunday.
Image copyright Reuters

The UK's credit rating has been cut over concerns about the UK's public finances and fears Brexit could damage the country's economic growth.
Moody's, one of the major ratings agencies, downgraded the UK to an Aa2 rating from Aa1.
It said leaving the European Union was creating economic uncertainty at a time when the UK's debt reduction plans were already off course.
Downing Street said the firm's Brexit assessments were "outdated".
The other major agencies, Fitch and S&P, changed their ratings in 2016, with S&P cutting it two notches from AAA to AA, and Fitch lowering it from AA+ to AA.
Moody's said the government had "yielded to pressure and raised spending in several areas" including health and social care.
It says revenues were unlikely to compensate for the higher spending.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Alastair Wilson, head of sovereign ratings at Moody's, gave two reasons for cutting the credit rating, but there was some good news

The agency said because the government had not secured a majority in the snap election it "further obscures the future direction of economic policy".
It also said Brexit would dominate legislative priorities, so there could be limited capacity to address "substantial" challenges.
It added "any free trade agreement will likely take years to negotiate, prolonging the current uncertainty for business".
Moody's has also changed the UK's long-term issuer and debt ratings to "stable" from "negative".
Moody's stripped Britain of its top-notch AAA rating in 2013.
The government said the latest downgrade followed a meeting on 19 September, and did not consider the prime minister's speech on Friday, in which she outlined her vision for Brexit.
"The prime minister has just set out an ambitious vision for the UK's future relationship with the EU, making clear that both sides will benefit from a new and unique partnership," it said.
"The foundations on which we build this partnership are strong."
It said it had a robust economic record and had made substantial progress in reducing the deficit.
"We are not complacent about the challenges ahead, but we are optimistic about our bright future."
Consequences for borrowing

But Labour's shadow chief secretary to the Treasury, Peter Dowd, called the downgrade a "hammer blow" to the economic credibility of the Conservatives and Chancellor Philip Hammond.
He pointed out that it was the second time the credit rating had shifted downwards under their government.
Credit rating agencies, in essence, rate a country on the strength of its economy - scoring governments or large companies on how likely they are to pay back their debt.
A rating downgrade can affect how much it costs governments to borrow money in the international financial markets.
In theory, a high credit rating means a lower interest rate, and vice versa.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Apple uses Imagination's technology in its iPhones

UK technology firm Imagination, which designs graphics chips for smartphones, is being bought for 550m by a Chinese-backed investment firm.
Imagination put itself up for sale in June after Apple, its largest customer, said it would stop using its products.
The boss of Imagination, Andrew Heath, said the takeover by China-backed Canyon Bridge was a "very good outcome" and would ensure it remained in the UK.
It becomes the latest UK chip designer to be bought by a foreign investor.
Last year, ARM, which designs microchip technology used in Apple and Samsung smartphones, was bought by Japan's Softbank for 24bn.
Canyon Bridge recently raised $1.5bn (1.1bn) from Chinese investors and has offices in Beijing and San Francisco.
'British innovation'

The firm said it currently has no plans to cut jobs at Hertfordshire-based Imagination after the takeover.
Ray Bingham, a partner at Canyon Bridge, said: "We are investing in UK talent and expertise in order to accelerate the expansion of Imagination, particularly into Asia, where its technology platform will lead the continued globalisation of British-developed innovation."
Imagination saw its shares halve in value when Apple said in April that it would end a deal to use its products.
The two firms are still engaged in a dispute over the move - with Imagination questioning Apple's "assertions" that it would be able to develop its own computer chip designs without breaching Imagination's intellectual property rights.
Apple's royalty payments for the chip technology, used in its iPhones, iPads and iPods, accounted for about half of Imagination's revenues.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The Trump administration blocked Canyon Bridge's attempts to buy a US tech firm

Mr Heath said: "Imagination has made excellent progress both operationally and financially over the last 18 months until Apple's unsubstantiated assertions and the subsequent dispute forced us to change course.
"The acquisition will ensure that Imagination - with its strong growth prospects - remains an independent IP licensing business, based in the UK, but operating around the world."
It is not Canyon Bridge's first deal for a Western tech company.
The firm is seeking approval for a $1.3bn deal to buy US chipmaker Lattice Semiconductor.
Last week, the Trump administration barred the sale of Lattice to the Chinese-backed company, citing national security risks.
Image copyright AFP

UK business groups have called for progress in the Brexit talks after Prime Minister Theresa May made offers on EU funding and citizens rights.
Mrs May also suggested a transition period of about two years during which trade should continue on current terms.
The CBI and other business bodies said negotiators now needed to quickly move on to talks about trade and transition.
But several Leave campaigners were disappointed about further delays, calling such a transition "stalling".
The prime minister hopes her offers, made in a speech in Florence, will unblock Brexit talks.
Carolyn Fairbairn, director general of the CBI, said: "The prime minister's speech has set a positive tone and we now need leadership from both sides to turn the proposals and principles into decisions and action."
She said "tangible progress must be made next week" when the two sides continue talks.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption A pro-EU campaigner protests in Florence ahead of Theresa May's speech

The CBI, along with trade bodies for aerospace and financial services, welcomed Mrs May's aim of retaining trade terms until 2021.
But the British Chambers of Commerce (BCC) said many businesses wanted a longer transition of at least three years.
The priorities for businesses are to "get trade talks moving", said Adam Marshall, the head of the BCC.
"In the world of business, the PM's Florence speech will be judged not on its rhetoric or delivery, but on whether it begins to break the stalemate that has left companies across the UK, Europe and around the world counting the cost of uncertainty," he said.
'Thin on detail'

But Brexit-backing businessmen and economists said the UK should be prepared to leave the EU without interim arrangements, known as a "no deal" scenario.
Professor Patrick Minford, chairman of Economists for Free Trade, said: "We are extremely disappointed that the Prime Minister seems to have committed to a vague transitional period of 'around two years' at this early stage in the negotiations."
The UK economy could benefit from global free trade and full competition after Brexit, he said.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Theresa May says an "implementation period" of two years "will create valuable certainty" for the UK and EU

Leave campaigner and businessman Christopher Nieper said Theresa May's Brexit speech was "thin on detail".
The managing director of womenswear manufacturer David Nieper, said: "What we are all waiting for is her vision for a trade deal.
We didn't see anything on that, and I was a little disappointed."
He told the BBC that further delay in agreeing a deal was just "stalling", adding: "In reality it's more uncertainty."
The EU's chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier described Mrs May's speech as "constructive" and said the prime minister had shown "a willingness to move forward".
Nearly half the couples eligible to claim marriage tax allowance are still failing to do so, according to HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC).
The tax allowance - worth 230 a year - can be claimed by married couples or those in a civil partnership if they meet certain conditions.
However, since it was introduced in 2015, only 2.2 million couples have claimed it, from 4.4 million eligible.
The government said it had now simplified the application process.
Last year, HMRC reported that only a quarter of eligible couples were claiming.
The latest figures were obtained as the result of a Freedom of Information request to HMRC by insurance company Royal London.
Steve Webb, the director of policy at Royal London, said the take-up was "shockingly low".
"When family finances are so tight, I would encourage every married couple to check whether they might be eligible, including for the last two years, as they could qualify for a useful lump sum as well as a reduction in their ongoing tax bill," he said.
How Marriage Allowance works

Partners must either be married, or in a civil partnership.
One partner must be working, and paying tax at the basic rate of 20%.
If he or she is earning over 45,000 (43,000 in Scotland) they are not eligible.
The other partner must be earning less than 11,500 in 2017-18, meaning they pay no tax.
If the above conditions are satisfied, the partner not paying tax can transfer 10% of his or her tax allowance to a partner, so saving 230 in this tax year.
Back-claims can be made for previous years

HMRC has organised several advertising campaigns to persuade people to apply for Marriage Allowance, and is known to be frustrated by the lack of take-up.
"Applications have increased year on year, and the application process is easy, and families can apply at a time which is convenient for them," a spokesperson said.
Steve Webb said the complexity of claiming might be one reason why so many people have not applied.
"I suspect people don't know who's eligible, or how to go about claiming it," he said.
A government spokesperson said: "2.2 million couples across the UK are keeping more of the money they earn thanks to the Marriage Allowance.
"Applications have increased year on year and we have simplified the application process to make it easier for families to apply at a time which is convenient for them."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg wants to retain control of the company but sell his shares

Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg has abandoned plans to create a new class of company stock.
A group of investors had sued over the proposal, which would have allowed Mr Zuckerberg to retain voting control of Facebook but own a smaller share of the company's shares.
Mr Zuckerberg still plans to sell up to $12bn (9bn) of Facebook shares to fund philanthropic ventures.
He would potentially have appeared in court next week as part of the lawsuit.
Mr Zuckerberg wrote on Facebook that when he proposed the stock split, he viewed it as the "only way" to fund those ventures, while maintaining control of Facebook.
But he said the share price had increased so much that he no longer saw it as necessary.
The proposed structure is popular with founders of firms such as Google's parent company Alphabet, but other shareholders view it as unfair.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Facebook listed its shares on the New York Stock Exchange in May 2012

"Over the past year and a half, Facebook's business has performed well and the value of our stock has grown to the point that I can fully fund our philanthropy and retain voting control of Facebook for 20 years or more," Mr Zuckerberg wrote.
"As a result, I've asked our board to withdraw the proposal to reclassify our stock - and the board has agreed."
Mr Zuckerberg said he plans to sell 35 million to 75 million shares - worth up to $12bn at current prices - over the next 18 months to fund his family's philanthropic work.
'Total victory'

Investors, including pension funds, had alleged that Facebook's board breached its duty to represent shareholders when they approved the plan.
Stuart Grant of Grant & Eisenhofer, an attorney for shareholders, called the decision a "total victory".
He said the case was now expected to be dismissed.
"We're thrilled that Facebook has dropped the reclassification," Mr Grant said.
Facebook has been grappling with controversy stemming from fake news spread through its network, as well as calls for increased regulator action.
Image copyright Getty Images

Imports of solar panels have harmed US manufacturers, the US International Trade Commission ruled on Friday.
The decision was a win for the two US-based producers that brought the case, saying their business had been hurt by a flood of foreign products.
President Donald Trump will decide on potential remedies for the industry.
The case is controversial, as US firms that install and assemble panels worry that more expensive products could slow the industry's growth.
The commission has several more weeks to make a recommendation for how President Trump should proceed.
A remedy, which could include tariffs or quotas, has not been decided.
Mr Trump has made America First a signature part of his trade policy, speaking in favour of greater protections for US companies and jobs.
The case was brought by Suniva and SolarWorld Americas, which are majority-owned by overseas businesses and face financial troubles.
They say more than two dozen US solar panel manufacturing operations have stopped in recent years as imports surged.
Attorney Timothy Brightbill, who represented SolarWorld, called the decision a "win for American manufacturing" and the solar industry.
Image copyright Getty Images

SolarWorld employs about 300 people in Oregon, down from 1,300 at the peak, but the firm is hopeful this decision will help the business return to growth, he said.
"In order to have a strong solar industry, we need to have manufacturing in America as a key component," he said.
A 'shakedown'?
The US solar industry employs about 260,000 people, according to the Solar Energy Industries Association.
The organisation's president and chief executive, Abigail Ross Hopper, said the trade commission's decision was "disappointing".
She criticised the tariffs proposed by Suniva as relief, arguing that they would increase prices and drive many other solar energy companies out of business.
The US has already imposed tariffs on Chinese solar panels, which led to increased imports from other countries.
A remedy in this case would apply to all countries.
"As the remedy phase moves forward, I am determined to reach a conclusion that will protect the solar industry, our workers and the American public from what amounts to a shakedown by these two companies," Ms Hopper said.
Image copyright Getty Images

The number of overseas visitors to the UK topped four million in July for the first time, official figures show.
Travellers to the UK spent 2.75bn on their visits, the Office for National Statistics (ONS) said, another record.
The figures also show the number of visits abroad by UK residents fell 2% from July last year to 6.9 million, with spending also down 2% to 4.5bn.
The weakening of the pound since the Brexit vote has made prices in the UK cheaper for travellers from abroad.
However, Patricia Yates, from tourist promotion agency VisitBritain, said the pound was a only small part of the story: "We know the weak pound helps, but it is not the motivator for first time visitors - most people overseas do not know what the exchange rate is."
So far this year, the number of overseas visits to the UK are up 8% on the same period last year, with spending running at 13.3bn.
The ONS says tourism is worth 127bn annually to the UK economy.
Here is a breakdown of where tourists to the UK come from:

Europe - 15.1 million, up 4% on last year

North America - 2.9 million, up 21% on last year

Rest of World, China, Australia, India, the Gulf - 3.6 million, up 18% on last year

Ms Yates said an improvement in airline capacity, particularly between the UK and China and the UK and North America had helped to encourage visitors.
"The US has been sluggish for a while - so some of it is bounce back, but some of it is because of the more competitive nature of transatlantic traffic," she said.
"We have also been building a buzz with [online travel website] Expedia, trying to encourage interest in places they may not have considered before."
Tourism Minister John Glen said: "Tourism is a major economic force that creates jobs and drives growth for the whole of the country.
"These record figures show the continued strength of this important sector and the UK's global position as a must-visit destination."
Top five visitor attractions in UK and annual visit numbers:
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Research from Glassdoor suggests Slough offers "an increased quality of life for employees"

Slough has come out on top of a survey of the 25 best towns and cities to live and work in, beating Manchester and Cambridge in the top three.
It is hailed as a "prime spot" for jobs, cost of living and worker satisfaction in research by jobs site Glassdoor.
Head offices for brands including Mars and O2 are based there.
The town is also the setting for sitcom The Office, about a fictional paper company on a drab industrial estate.
Swindon and Stoke-on Trent were fourth and fifth in the study respectively.
Image copyright Darren Smith/Geograph Image caption Slough was the setting for Ricky Gervais's mockumentary about life in a fictional paper company on a drab industrial estate

Nancy Lalor from the Slough Chamber of Commerce said she is not surprised by the study: "We've got so many head offices that are based in Slough, so many 'corporates', and an amazing trading estate with over 350 businesses on it, so I think it's really on the up.
"There's so much new build, so much development going on in the town, every few months the whole look of the town is changing and I think people are inspired by what's going on."
You might also like:

The town's soulless image was also cemented by poet John Betjeman, who wrote the poem Slough in 1937 with the lines: "Come friendly bombs and fall on Slough!
It isn't fit for humans now".
However, Glassdoor's research shows Slough offered a good quality of life for employees, with a median salary of 35,000 per annum, the average house costing 390,000 and 26,000 vacancies being advertised.
Image copyright Mary Evans Picture Library Image caption Ricky Gervais' character David Brent in The Office quips that 'Slough's a big place'

Dr Andrew Chamberlain, Glassdoor's chief economist, said Slough is in a part of the country which offers "pleasant environments" meaning "an increased quality of life for employees".
He added: "Although people in London are generally satisfied, it has proven not only to be an expensive place to live, but also an ultra-competitive city in which to find a job."
Image copyright Getty Images

The eurozone economy ended the third quarter of the year on a strong note, a survey has indicated.
The IHS Markit composite purchasing managers' index (PMI) suggested private businesses grew faster than expected in September.
It said manufacturers had enjoyed their best month since early 2011.
Chris Williamson, chief business economist at IHS Markit, said: "The eurozone economy ended the summer with a burst of activity."
Business activity during September saw one of its strongest gains for the past six years, the survey indicated.
The "flash" PMI reading for September - which is based on about 85% of replies to the survey - rose to 56.7 from August's reading of 55.7.
A reading above 50 indicates growth.
The manufacturing sector saw the biggest rise in employment in more than two decades, IHS Markit said, adding that the signs were that the next quarter would register strong manufacturing growth as well.
The survey also found that the pick-up in business activity had been accompanied by rising price pressures, with input cost and selling price inflation accelerating for the second month in a row.
It pointed out that the rise in business activity and inflationary pressures would fuel expectations the European Central Bank will, as has long been awaited, start to rein in its asset purchase programme.
The ECB is currently buying 60bn euros (55bn) of bonds a month as part of its quantitative easing programme.
Earlier this month, the ECB raised its eurozone economic growth forecast for this year to 2.2%, the fastest in 10 years and hinted it could start trimming asset purchases next month
Image copyright AFP Image caption Ms Bettencourt was the world's 14th wealthiest person, according to Forbes magazine's 2017 list

Liliane Bettencourt, the heiress to cosmetics firm L'Oreal, has died aged 94, her family has confirmed.
A statement said she had died at home "peacefully" overnight.
With an estimated 2017 net worth of 33bn euros (30bn; $40bn), she was the world's richest woman.
She left the company's board in 2012 and was rarely seen in public afterwards, but remained in the news because of a high-profile exploitation case following her dementia diagnosis.
In a statement, the company's chairman and CEO Jean-Paul Agon said: "We all had a deep admiration for Liliane Bettencourt who has always watched over L'Oreal, the company and its employees, and who was very attached to its success and development.
"She personally contributed a lot to its success for very many years.
A great woman of beauty has left us and we will never forget her."
The heiress became embroiled in a public feud with her estranged daughter, Francoise Bettencourt-Meyers, in 2007.
Ms Bettencourt-Meyers filed a lawsuit over concerns that her mother was being exploited by members of her entourage amid declining health.
It was revealed in 2008 that a photographer who had befriended the heiress, Franois-Marie Banier, was gifted items worth hundreds of millions of dollars - including paintings by Picasso and a 670-acre island in the Seychelles.
Ms Bettencourt-Meyers said she took legal action against Mr Banier after learning from her mother's household staff that she was allegedly considering adopting him.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Ms Bettencourt and her daughter, pictured at a L'Oreal event in 2011

The mother and daughter reconciled their relationship in 2010, and a French judge ordered Ms Bettencourt be put under the guardianship of her family a year later because of her failing health.
But the family exploitation case then escalated to a political scandal after it was claimed that Ms Bettencourt's financial manager, Patrice de Maistre, had extracted money from her to go towards former French President Nicolas Sarkozy's 2007 election bid.
The alleged illegal funding was investigated, although Mr Sarkozy consistently rejected all accusations of impropriety and French prosecutors dropped all charges relating to him in 2013.
The rest of the exploitation case was eventually resolved in May 2015 when eight people, including Mr Banier, were convicted and instructed to pay millions in damages to the family.
The L'Oreal empire

Ms Bettencourt's assets, including her holding stake in the cosmetics company, were placed in a trust controlled by her daughter.
One of her two grandchildren, Jean-Victor Meyers, succeeded her on L'Oreal's board as vice chairman, and was named to guard her personal affairs.
Her father, Eugne Schueller, founded a hair dye company in 1909, which then turned into the L'Oreal group.
It is now the world's largest cosmetics company.
Image copyright Getty Images

UK shares reversed early losses to finish higher as the pound lost ground against other currencies.
North Korea's threat to test a hydrogen bomb over the Pacific had hit stocks in early trade, but the FTSE 100 share index then recovered to close 47 points higher at 7,311.
The pound slipped 0.4% against the dollar to $1.352, and fell 0.5% against the euro to 1.131 euros.
Markets were reacting to Theresa May's speech in Florence.
The UK prime minister said there should be a two-year transition period after Brexit, during which trade should continue on current terms.
However, analysts said the pound dipped after she had failed to give concrete details on how the UK would retain access to the EU's single market.
Among the main share movers, Smiths Group dropped 5.6% despite the conglomerate reporting a 17% rise in profit to 528m for the year to 31 July.
Analysts focused on Smiths' slight dip in underlying revenues, with Morgan Stanley describing it as "disappointing".
After jumping more than 14% on Thursday, shares in Johnson Matthey continued to rise, climbing a further 1.2%.
Investors had cheered the company confirming its full-year sales guidance and the announcement of a 200m fund to invest in developing battery materials so it can benefit from the growth in electric cars.
Image copyright Getty Images

The yen edged up 0.3% against the dollar on Friday after North Korea suggested it might test a hydrogen bomb over the Pacific Ocean.
It is not unusual for Japan's currency to climb during a crisis, as investors seek a safe haven until risks ease.
But this crisis is slightly different, because the additional risks could be to Japan itself.
Analysts, however, say things would have to be catastrophic for investors to flee the currency.
The yen is an extremely resilient currency, and it has risen during previous times of crisis in Japan.
It climbed 0.8% against the dollar when North Korea fired a missile over Japan in late August, and also gained during a second launch two weeks later.
After the 2011 tsunami and nuclear disaster at Fukushima, there was such a surge that the government and the G7 countries had to intervene.
So what would it take to send investors running from the yen?
"It'd have to be a really, really extreme event.
Even if there is a war, I'd expect the yen to strengthen," said Takuji Okubo from Japan Macro Advisors.
This latest crisis is nowhere near that level.
In fact, Mr Okubo said one reason the yen is strengthening right now is that Japanese investors actually think the risk of armed conflict is very low.
Instead, they are worried about the possible impact of a trade blockade or a drop in consumer sentiment hitting sales of homes or cars.
Image copyright Getty Images

If the main risks are economic, then investors might not see much difference between this crisis and any other risk.
"If the risk is financial and economic, you would want to increase your cash reserve and generally curtail your risk exposure," he said.
Other options

Other analysts think investors simply lack other good options if their main goal is to to keep their money somewhere safe until conditions improve.
That includes the other traditional safe haven, the US dollar, in part because the Federal Reserve's current monetary policies might not be carried out if Janet Yellen is not reappointed as chair next year.
"Directionless, rudderless and leaderless America is looking unattractive" said David Kuo from the Motley Fool.
"Investors are therefore bereft of places to park their money.
Switzerland is not big enough.
Nor is Singapore.
The eurozone is in a mess.
So that just leaves Japan," he said.
Image copyright Niall Carson/PA Image caption Boss Michael O'Leary at the Ryanair shareholder meeting

Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary has said the firm plans to make some pilots delay a week's holiday as it wrestles with massive flight cancellations.
His comments came at the airline's annual general meeting in Dublin.
Ryanair is cancelling 40-50 flights every day for the next six weeks, after it admitted it had "messed up" the planning of pilot holidays.
Mr O'Leary said some pilots had been offered a 10,000-euro pay rise in exchange for helping out.
He told the AGM that the offer applied to pilots at London Stansted, Dublin, Frankfurt and Berlin airports.
This is on top of a cash bonus already offered to pilots, which has been given a frosty reception.
Ryanair had offered captains a one-off payment of 12,000 or 12,000 euros, and first officers 6,000 or 6,000 euros, but representatives said they wanted new contracts and better working conditions instead.
Analysis: Simon Jack, business editor

Will the combination of unhappy customers, and the increased cost of retaining pilots, harm the very business model of the airline itself?
Could Michael O'Leary become a lightning rod for staff discontent (the way Willie Walsh did at BA) and have to stand down?
According to shareholders I spoke to today, the answers are no and no.
Read more from Simon in his business blog

Mr O'Leary said the airline had "some goodies" to propose to pilots, but added: "If pilots misbehave, that will be the end of the goodies."
He dismissed talk of possible industrial action, including reported plans for a work-to-rule, saying: "There isn't a union."
He also accused unions of trying to give the company "a bloody nose" and said staff did not want union representation.
What should I do if my flight is cancelled?
Flight cancellations in full

Has your flight been cancelled?
Get in touch: haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk

Mr O'Leary told the AGM that Ryanair was facing a "significant management failure" and the cancellations had cost the airline about 25m euros (22m).
He said pilots who had a four-week block of holidays coming up in the next few months because of rota changes, would be told to take three weeks off instead and have the other week in January.
This partial reversal of the new holiday policy announced earlier in the week applied to 500 of the airline's 4,200 pilots, he said, and would stop cancellations rolling into November and December.
Arguing that Ryanair did not need the pilots' agreement to these further changes to their holiday arrangements, Mr O'Leary said: "There won't be more cancellations because of the rostering issues."
Analysis: Richard Westcott, transport correspondent

Image copyright Getty Images

The Ryanair pilots I've spoken to say they've never known anything like it.
Across Europe, I'm told, staff reps from more than 30 bases are talking on Whatsapp, co-ordinating a plan to get a better deal from their employer.
Until now, they say, they've been scattered and isolated, making them much less powerful.
Over the past few days, several have said to me how unhappy and disrespected they feel at work, yet they've never had a unified voice to bargain for a better deal.
They seem to have found that voice.
One used the word "revolt".
It's hard to say where this might end up, but Ryanair really needs these people on side right now, to help it through a messy few weeks of cancelled flights.
If these pilots refuse to work extra days, more cancellations could be on the way.
'Greener pastures'

In a letter seen by the BBC, pilot representatives from 30 of the company's 80 or so European bases turned down the cash bonus offer.
They wrote: "The pilot market is changing, and Ryanair will need to change the ways which the pilots and management work together to ensure a stable and common future for everyone."
New contracts, the letter said, should help stop the large number of colleagues who are leaving for "greener pastures".
Separately, some Ryanair pilots have spoken to the BBC about a "toxic" atmosphere and how they felt "undervalued".
Ryanair has said it expects to have re-accommodated more than 95% of the 315,000 customers affected by cancellations by end of this week.
Video

Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn told Andrew Marr he supported workers asking for a decent public sector pay rise.
He did not say whether he would join them on the picket line.
Video

A family-run hardware shop has been celebrating 150 years in business.
Goldings in Bedford High Street, first opened its doors in 1867 and has survived the launch of DIY superstores and the rise of internet shopping.
Its former owner, 71-year-old Victor Warner, who has been working there since 1961, has been sharing his secrets to business success.
Video

As the global population grows and more of us are eating meat and fish, there are concerns that the world's resources can't keep up.
Currently, many farmed animals and fish are fed fishmeal, which is made of wild-caught fish.
These could be threatened if demand for fishmeal intensifies.
Jason Drew is an entrepreneur and environmentalist.
He has found a way to turn food waste into a maggot-based animal feed, which could offer a sustainable alternative.
His company has just won the Global Champion Award from The Food Chain on BBC World Service.
Video

A major Vauxhall distribution centre is marking 50 years since its opening.
Vauxhall Parts, in Toddington Road, Luton, was one of the largest facilities in the country when it opened in 1967.
BBC News takes a look at the site, then and now.
Video

With global population set to top 10 billion by 2050, the UN says agricultural output needs to rise by 70%.
And Africa will be key as it is home to two-thirds of the world's uncultivated arable land.
The BBC's Taurai Maduna has been to South Africa's Western Cape to see how drones and data analytics are set to change the game.
Video

The space race of the Cold War pitted the world's two superpowers against one another to explore what lies beyond Earth.
Now anyone with enough money and enterprise can get there.
But this new race isn't between countries - it's between companies.
Find out more at The Disruptors #thedisruptors @BBCMoney

Producer: Philippa Goodrich; Reporter: Tim Bowler
Video

A good slice of Gambia's economy is based on oysters.
And while men fish, this industry is completely dominated by women who, besides harvesting the oysters, are also involved in conservation efforts.
Africa Business Report travelled to the coastal village of Kartong to meet them.
Barbie becomes curvy and changes race

Barbie has finally had a makeover and will be sold in three new body shapes in response to falling sales and longstanding criticism.
Image copyright Getty Images

Over the past year, we've been exploring 50 key things that have contributed to the development of the modern economy, including inventions such as the diesel engine, the battery, the shipping container, Google, antibiotics and the Billy bookcase.
But what did we miss?
What should be the 51st thing that made the modern economy?
We've received hundreds of suggestions, which we've whittled down to a shortlist of six.
You can vote for your favourite, and the winner will feature in a special programme and podcast on 28 October 2017.
The credit card

The first option of our six traces its history to 1960, in Minnesota in the US.
Dorothea Parry was ironing when her husband, Forrest, came home from work at the computer giant IBM.
How was his day?
Well, he had a problem.
IBM had worked out how to encode information on magnetic strips.
They wanted to fix the strips to plastic cards.
But he couldn't work out how.
Dorothea could.
She ironed them on.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Behavioural economists say we spend differently on plastic compared with cash

The addition of the magnetic stripe was a huge boost for credit cards, which were just a few years old and struggling for acceptance.
Merchants shown a Diners Club or American Express card had to phone the bank.
IBM's magnetic strip paved the way for a far less cumbersome approach.
The new credit cards were pushed aggressively.
And people soon found that having a "flexible friend" could make us drop our financial guard: behavioural economists tell us that spending on plastic is psychologically much easier than spending cash.
The price of convenience has been ballooning household debt.
But it's hard to imagine the modern economy without them.
Glass

Our second suggestion also requires heat to manufacture, but a household iron won't do the job.
You need temperatures of 1,700C to make glass.
Who first did that is lost to history, but they probably lived in Egypt, Syria or Mesopotamia, about 5,500 years ago.
Did they look at sand and have an unlikely brainwave: "I wonder what would happen if we melted it?"
Or did they discover glass by accident, perhaps while smelting bronze?
Who knows?
But it's safe to bet that the early glassmakers could never have predicted how it would shape the economy.
And if you choose glass as the 51st thing, my challenge will be choosing how to tell its story.
Image copyright Thinkstock Image caption Glass touchscreen technology has driven the development of smartphones and tablets

Perhaps you're reading this on a touchscreen device, accessing the internet via fibre-optic cables.
Is that the story of glass?
Or I could focus, so to speak, on the lens - how the telescope and microscope changed our knowledge of the world.
Spectacles, windows, or fibreglass could each fill an episode of their own.
GPS (global positioning system)

One of the real challenges when choosing my list of 50 was that so many inventions overlap, one bright idea later enabling another.
The story of clocks, for example, concluded by observing that GPS wouldn't work without extremely accurate timekeeping.
But many of you felt that GPS deserves a story of its own, and that's our third possibility.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption GPS technology has revolutionised transportation

If you've got a smartphone, it probably has a GPS receiver.
There are 31 satellites flying around the Earth right now, constantly transmitting their position and the time.
If your phone can pick up signals from at least four of them, it can do some clever maths to work out where it is, and plot its position for you on a map.
Like many of our 50 things, GPS has military origins: the US Department of Defense developed it to win the Cold War.
Now, in turn, GPS is enabling bright ideas that will make the economy of the future - new business models that connect buyers and sellers, and new technologies such as self-driving vehicles, robots and drones.
Irrigation

The fourth item on our shortlist begins with an old story about a flood.
It's not the Judaeo-Christian tale of Noah's Ark, but the Chinese story of Emperor Yu, the founder of China's first dynasty 4,000 years ago.
Noah floated on the waters, but Emperor Yu tamed them, recruiting an army of labourers - along with a dragon and a giant turtle - to assist in setting up irrigation and drainage.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The traditional irrigation system used in Bali's Jatiluwih rice fields has Unesco world heritage status

Great Yu changed China, and irrigation continues to shape our economy, from California, where arguments rage over the most valuable use of scarce water, to Bali, where the intricacy of the water-management system has astonished visiting experts.
The only woman to receive a Nobel Memorial Prize in economics, Lin Ostrom, spent much of her life studying irrigation systems.
Ostrom was fascinated by how humans cooperate to manage common resources.
There are few more important questions than that - and few better case studies than how we decide who gets how much water, as it trickles - often crossing borders - from the hills down to the sea.
The pencil

Paper was one of our 50 things.
Should we add the pencil to the list?
It does have a special place in the history of economic thought.
In 1958, the libertarian economist Leonard Reed published an essay called I, Pencil, in which an ordinary pencil explained the miracle of its existence.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The humble pencil can demonstrate the sophistication of the modern globalised economy

The pencil boasted cedar from Oregon which had been milled in California, graphite from Sri Lanka, a brass ferule, a rubber made from Italian pumice and Indonesian rape-seed oil, and more besides.
Leonard Reed's point was that in a modern economy, behind even the humblest of objects was a tale of international supply chains, complex manufacturing, capital investment and science.
No one person can make a pencil from scratch, yet the miracle of market forces makes pencils available for pennies.
The pencil is a small enough player on the global scale - but a perfect way to understand the sophistication of the modern economy.
The spreadsheet

Time for one more idea, plucked from a list of hundreds.
But where did we store that list?
On a spreadsheet, of course.
Or perhaps I should say, 'On a digital spreadsheet' - because pencil-and-paper spreadsheets used to be ubiquitous.
The accountants of the 1970s would fill out row upon row of cost and revenue assumptions.
A single change might require hours - or even days - with a calculator, a pencil and a rubber.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Spreadsheets transformed accountancy and made extremely sophisticated analysis possible

The first electronic spreadsheet, VisiCalc, came in 1979.
It was the brainchild of Dan Bricklin - a computer-savvy student at Harvard Business School.
He fantasised about creating a spreadsheet that would recalculate itself.
His software revolutionised finance.
Wall Street and the City of London started trading financial products that could hardly be said to exist - let alone be comprehended - without a spreadsheet.
It reshaped accountancy, destroying the jobs of clerks who had pored over paper spreadsheets.
But it created new jobs for analysts, exploring one scenario after another.
We increasingly understand the world around us through numbers, and the digital spreadsheet deserves much of the credit for that.
How to vote

You can vote for one of the six things listed above on the 50 Things That Made the Modern Economy programme website, where you can also see the full terms and conditions.
Voting closes at 12:00 GMT on Friday 6 October 2017, and the winning 51st thing will be announced in a special programme and podcast on 28 October 2017.
You can listen to all the episodes of 50 Things That Made the Modern Economy on the programme website, or download them as podcasts.
The round 1 coin will soon lose its status as legal tender.
In practice, shops can refuse to accept these coins from 16 October.
They have been used alongside the new 12-sided 1 coin since March - a period called co-circulation.
Now, there is not long left to spend, bank, exchange or donate old pounds coins but, first, you have to find them.
The Treasury and Royal Mint estimate that around 500 million round pounds are still out there somewhere.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption A brief history of decimal coins

Rounding them up

Those old, round 1 coins might be lurking somewhere around the house.
Chris Bird, senior lecturer in psychology at the University of Sussex, says one way to find them is to visualise a situation when you had a handful of loose change.
"We can use our memory to imagine situations when we would use them and where we would leave them," he says.
"That is what the memory is for.
We use our memory to make decisions in the now and in the future."
He says that a fairly recent discovery reveals that we use the same part of our brain to remember the past as we do to imagine ourselves in a certain situation.
So the same mechanism in the brain's memory system allows us not only to travel back, but also to consider the present or the future.
The other way to find those old coins, according to Mr Bird, is simply to check all of the places that you know are where you commonly keep change.
So here is a handy list of 10 places to look:

1.
A wallet or purse

Sometimes the most obvious is the last place you look.
Shops can give the round 1 coins as change until 16 October, so they could be popped into a wallet or purse in a rush.
The Royal Mint has been encouraging shops to bag the round pounds separately so, when they are banked, they are taken out of circulation.
Down the back of the sofa

Image copyright Getty Images

The most clichd answer to the question of where to find loose change.
Honestly, when was the last time you found coins down there?
But when was the last time you looked?
It is probably worth checking in the next few days, along with armchairs, and beds.
Even if you do not find any money, you may come across the remote control for the DVD player.
Supermarket bag for life

You have finished your Friday night big shop and you are about to carry your groceries to the bus or car, but first you lock up the supermarket trolley and your 1 coin pops out of the mechanism.
Into the bag for life it goes.
Perhaps it is still there?
If the bag really is for life, then it might be sitting in the back of the cupboard under the stairs.
Most supermarket trolleys have now been altered to accept the new 12-sided 1 coin, but there was a delay at Tesco when the new coin was launched in March.
Big night out handbag

Image copyright Getty Images

It is only used on special occasions, so it might be at the back of the wardrobe or hanging on a peg behind a few coats.
The chances are that there is still a bit of cash in there, maybe some change from the bar or the taxi home.
If you go out a lot, you will have found the cash already.
If you have young children, then the last big night was probably months ago.
Winter coat pocket

While you are still at the back of the wardrobe, why not check the pockets of your winter coats.
It is unlikely that they have been worn since the new 12-sided 1 coin entered circulation on 28 March, and they might not be worn again before 16 October.
The old 1 coins cannot be spent in the shops after that date, but they can continue to be deposited into an account at most High Street banks and the Post Office for the foreseeable future.
The top drawer

Image copyright Getty Images

Any top drawer around the house seems a natural place to throw some loose change - even if it has socks in it.
It might also be the chance to declutter.
Is the only reason that the top drawer is always overflowing while the bottom is fine simply because we are too lazy to bend down?
Children's piggy banks

Children's financial habits are formed by the age of seven, according to the government-backed Money Advice Service.
So if your children are super savers, then there could be quite a few 1 coins in their piggy banks.
Junior savings accounts can generally be opened with as little as 1, to keep that savings habit going.
It may be a chance for the youngsters to spend the fruits of their savings labours before there is a scene in the toy shop when the cashier refuses an old, lovingly saved 1 coin.
It is worth remembering too that tooth fairies should no longer use old, round 1 coins from 16 October.
A charity pot

Image copyright HM Treasury

Many homes will have a charity pot of some kind, ranging from those big glass bottles to a cardboard shoe box.
The UK Treasury and the Royal Mint have joined forces with the BBC's Children in Need appeal to ask anyone who finds some old 1 coins to donate them to the charity.
"We are encouraging everyone who can, to promise their round pounds to Pudsey," says Andrew Jones, exchequer secretary to the Treasury.
Car glove compartment

There are probably many more coins in vehicle glove compartments than gloves.
A recent survey by the AA motoring organisation suggested drivers have been avoiding parking spots that require payment by phone as cash remained a more popular way to pay.
Many drivers keep coins in the glove compartment for parking fares, and in that little well by the gear stick that is designed to hold cups.
Gym kit bag

Image copyright Getty Images

Attendance at the gym or sports centre may have waned a little since the subscription was bought with good intentions in the new year.
The gym bag may actually have been unopened throughout the summer.
In which case, the 1 coins for the locker may be old round ones, rather than new 12-sided ones.
Dig them out, pop them in the bank, and save them ready for January's subscription renewal, when the good intentions start all over again.
The new 1 coin: Vital statistics

Image copyright PA

Thickness: 2.8mm - thinner than old coin

Weight: 8.75g - lighter than old coin

Diameter: 23.4mm - larger than old coin

Number to enter circulation: 1.5 billion - about 23 per person.
Old 1 coins will be melted down to make new ones

Outer ring: gold-coloured, made from nickel-brass

Inner ring: silver-coloured, made from nickel-plated alloy
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption My Little Pony with attitude: US designer Jeremy Scott at Moschino's fashion show in Milan

The fashion industry is experiencing a revolution, with mermaids, unicorns, sparkles and vintage toys now all the rage in High Street fashion shops.
Products once considered to be "too childish" or alternative for women to wear are now increasingly popular.
Moschino has just launched its My Little Pony collection for Spring/Summer 2018 at Milan Fashion Week.
But the trend has led to renewed debate among consumers about whether wearing such fashion items is a sign of immaturity.
A new social phenomenon is arising on Instagram, whereby young women have become the key influencers for their friendship circles and communities.
Social trends

Users now regularly post photos of their outfits on Instagram, together with a full run-down of what they are wearing and where they got it from.
If someone has a unique and unusual item, others covet it.
Image copyright Jessica Ayton Image caption Quirky cute alternative fashion items can now be found on the High Street

To ensure that more people see the outfit shot posts, users include hashtags for different styles and tag the small businesses they purchased the item from.
This helps other consumers find the product, as well as providing free publicity for independent brands.
Over time, these trends grow on social networks, often without ever receiving mainstream media coverage.
Relatable fashion

Now, some of these fashion trends are making their way into the mainstream - whether it's seashell bags, pink heart chokers, sparkly rubber phone cases, pastel jackets, comfortable boat-like shoes called "creepers", fluffy neon fur tops or colourful see-through backpacks.
"People just want something they can relate to," says Rosanna Mackney, the creative director of Dreamy Bows, a UK retailer of Japanese fashion.
"If you see a model in a magazine, you know they've had styling and a makeup artist to do it for them, but if you see someone's Instagram account, you know that they achieved that look by themselves, so you know it's a lot more realistic that you can achieve the look yourself."
Image copyright Ruth Brain Image caption Clothing themed around vintage 1980s toys like My Little Pony, Care Bears and Polly Pocket are also now all the rage

Merchandise depicting vintage toys like My Little Pony and Polly Pocket have also seen a revival amongst fashionistas on Instagram.
Apart from Moschino, American independent makeup brand Lime Crime recently launched a line of eyeshadow palettes inspired by 1990s Polly Pocket playsets.
Lime Crime founder Doe Deere says that her beauty brand wants customers to be unapologetically expressive: "Our customers create the trends - they inspire us daily.
"Women have been told a lot of things [about what they should wear], but thankfully the fashion and beauty industries are populated with innovators and change-makers who don't give much thought to the rules."
'Be adult'

Yet many think that childlike items should be best left in childhood.
"You may like bright and vibrant colours.
That is perfectly fine.
But you are not a little girl.
You are an adult woman, and there is pride in being an adult women," Racked.com's Jennifer Wright implores in a critique of the 2017 summer fashion trends.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Are the symbols and fashions you choose to wear really a sign of how mature you are?
"Please don't latch onto the fantasy world of mermaids and unicorns and whatever other bits of girlish nostalgia is being marketed to you.
"None of those things are real.
Now, more than ever, we need to be present in the real world that's unfolding.
The world needs adult women, desperately."
Financial crisis

Ruth Brain, 27, an alternative fashion YouTube vlogger from Edinburgh known online as "Princess Peachie", has been collecting vintage toys since 2005.
Ms Brain who has 59,000 YouTube subscribers and 12,000 Instagram followers says that while her hobby was judged as being "weird" 12 years ago, nowadays young women feel more comfortable expressing themselves openly.
"Those of us who grew up through the late 1980s to early 2000s are all kind of withdrawing to that carefree, happier feeling," she says.
"Which for us was before the point we finished high school and got tossed into a financial crisis."
"But also we're all kind of realising that 'growing up' isn't really related to aesthetic.
Image copyright Dreamy Bows Image caption The latest trends are heavily influenced by the Harajuku street styles from Japan and other underground movements

"It's related to your intelligence, wisdom and emotional maturity - so if you're wearing My Little Ponies on your sweatshirt or Care Bears on your socks, none of that really matters in the grand scheme of things, as long as it makes you smile," says Ms Brain.
Fashion rebels

Rosanna Mackney also disagrees that wearing colourful, cute fashion items is a sign of immaturity.
"It's a rebellion against what society and high fashion thinks women should dress like," she says.
"Mature, understated elegance, muted colours - lots of people don't want to conform to this, and sometimes we just want to wear cute and colourful things that express all sides of our personalities."
But perhaps times are changing, and the so-called "rules" governing a woman's perceived maturity are being turned on their head.
"Fashion today is becoming more young and fun - it's kind of like they're branching out for the 'weird kid'," says Jessica Ayton, 27, an alternative fashion blogger from West Yorkshire with 5,000 followers on Instagram.
"The cutesy fashion, we're allowed to embrace it now."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption If a hacker managed to switch off a life-support machine, the results could be fatal

Imagine a hacker remotely turning off a life support machine in a hospital, or shutting down a power station.
These are the nightmare scenarios we face because many organisations haven't a clue how many unsecured devices are connected to their networks, cyber-security experts warn.
It was an ordinary day at a busy hospital - doctors, nurses and surgeons rushed about attending to the health of their patients.
For Hussein Syed, chief information security officer for the largest health provider in New Jersey, it was the health of his IT network that was keeping him busy.
And today, he was in for a surprise.
He knew he presided over a complex web of connected medical devices, computers, and software applications spread across RWJBarnabas Health's 13 hospitals.
This included about 30,000 computers, 300 apps, a data centre, as well as all the mobile phones hooking up to the hospitals' wi-fi networks.
Company mergers had only added to the complexity of these sprawling IT systems.
Image copyright RWJBarnabas Health Image caption Hussein Syed discovered that there were around 70,000 devices connected to his network

But when he used a specialist IoT cyber-security program to carry out a full audit, he discovered that there were in fact 70,000 internet-enabled devices accessing the health firm's network - far more than he'd expected.
"We found a lot of things we were not aware of," Mr Syed tells the BBC, "systems that weren't registered with IT and which didn't meet our security standards."
These included security cameras and seemingly innocuous gadgets such as uninterruptible power supplies (UPSs) - units that provide back-up battery power in the event of a power cut.
"These unidentified devices could definitely have been access points for hackers who could have then found high-value assets on our network," says Mr Syed.
Hack in to a UPS and you could potentially switch off life-critical machines, he explains.
Or hackers could steal patient data, encrypt it, then demand a ransom for its safe return.
On the black market "health data is worth 50 times more than credit card data", says Mr Syed.
Image copyright RWJBarnabas Health Image caption Hospitals like this RWJBarnabas Health one in New Jersey are also complex IT networks

The audit "helped us protect our network," he adds, preferring not to dwell on what might have been.
Mike DeCesare, chief executive of ForeScout, the software provider Mr Syed brought in, says: "Businesses typically underestimate by 30% to 40% how many devices are linked to their network.
It's often a shock when they find out.
"With the proliferation of IoT [internet of things] devices the attack surface for hackers has increased massively.
"Traditional antivirus software was designed on the assumption that there were just a few operating systems.
Now, because of IoT, there are thousands."
ForeScout's software monitors a company's network and indentifies every device trying to access it, "not just from its IP [internet protocol] address, but from 50 other attributes and fingerprints", says Mr DeCesare.
The reason for these other layers of security is that it is "relatively easy" for hackers to mask the identity of a particular device - known as MAC [media access control] spoofing.
So ForeScout's software takes a behavioural approach to monitoring.
Image copyright ForeScout Image caption ForeScout boss Mike DeCesare says his company can spot rogue devices on the network

"We look at the traffic from all those different devices and analyse whether they are behaving like they should," he says.
"Is that printer behaving like a printer?
So why is it trying to access other devices on the network and break in to the system?
"If we spot aberrant behaviour we can disconnect the device from the network automatically."
Services from network monitoring firms - ForeScout, Solar Winds, IBM, SecureWorks, Gigamon and others - are becoming increasingly necessary in a world where everything - from lamp-posts to lawn sensors - is becoming internet-enabled.
According to Verizon's latest State of the Market: Internet of Things report there are now 8.4 billion connected devices - a 31% increase on 2016 - and $2tn (1.5tn) will have been spent on the technologies by the end of 2017.
But as Verizon points out, lack of industry-wide standards for IoT devices is giving businesses major security concerns.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Technology explained: What is the internet of things?
Stories of cyber-attacks mounted on the back of insecure devices such as video cameras have highlighted the issue.
"IoT security is one of the biggest challenges we're facing right now," says Darren Thomson, chief technology officer and vice president, technology services at cyber-security firm Symantec.
The difficulty is that IoT devices are generally simple, cheap and low-powered, without the capability of running the antivirus programs operated by traditional computers.
"The challenge with critical infrastructure is that it wasn't built with security in mind," says Tom Reilly, chief executive of Cloudera, the IoT and data analytics platform.
"Smart cities are a great playing field for hackers - changing traffic lights, turning elevators on and off - there are many security exposures.
"We need to get ahead of them."
This necessitates a different approach to security, a growing number of experts believe.
In April, telecoms giant Verizon launched what it calls its IoT "security credentialing" service, whereby only trusted, verified devices are allowed to access a company's network.
Meanwhile, Cloudera has formed a strategic partnership with chip maker Intel.
More Technology of Business

Image copyright Getty Images

"Intel makes the chips that are being used in many IoT sensors," explains Mr Reilly, "and all that data being created needs to land in a database like ours residing in a data centre.
"We authenticate all the devices - we're creating an end-to-end platform for the IoT world."
Rival GE Digital, a subsidiary of the global engineering giant GE, has also developed its own IoT and data analytics platform called Predix which it is outsourcing to big clients such as British Airways and oil giant Exxon.
IoT sensors are fitted to big machines, from gas turbines to aero engines, and these transmit "petabytes of data in real time that helps us work out how to optimise their maintenance", says Bill Ruh, GE Digital chief executive.
"We get all that data back via virtual private networks mostly in a highly secure encrypted fashion."
But if you don't have the resources to commit to an entire IoT ecosystem operated by a major tech company, behavioural network monitoring may be your next best bet.
Just bear in mind that your organisation's defences are only as strong as the weakest part.
Beware the invisible network.
Image copyright Jorge Sarmento Image caption Cork is harvested from a type of oak tree, with Portugal the world's largest producer

If you are a regular wine drinker it is almost certain that you have opened a corked bottle or two in your time.
As a result of a tainted cork, the wine smells and tastes unpleasant - all musky and mouldy.
After the initial disappointment, you then have the worry of trying to get your money back from the wine shop or supermarket.
Or you may face an awkward conversation with a supercilious wine waiter, whose boss might not take kindly to reimbursing you, especially if it was an expensive bottle and the taint isn't too prominent.
Figures for how many cork-sealed wine bottles are affected by cork taint are hotly disputed, but a 2007 study put it as high as one in 10.
With reputations on the line, and money lost on wine tipped down sinks, it is not surprising that winemakers around the world are continuing to ditch corks for metal screw-cap openings on their bottles.
So much so that cork went from sealing 95% of wine bottles globally in the 1990s, to just 62% in 2009.
This is bad news for Portugal's cork producers, who supply more than half the world market from forests of cork oak trees in the south of the country.
However, the industry is fighting back.
Image copyright APcor Image caption Natural corks are "punched" out of strips of cork

But first, what exactly is cork taint?
It is caused by a chemical compound known as TCA.
In very simple terms, TCA is created by tiny airborne fungi that have attached themselves to the cork.
It isn't harmful, but it can make your wine taste bad, or alternatively strip it of flavour.
Carlo de Jesus, director of marketing at Portugal's largest cork producer, Amorim, admits that about 13 years ago things looked bleak for the future of natural corks in some countries.
"Of course everything has its upsides and downsides, but there was a moment there around 2003-04 where the image of cork not having a future was taking place in some markets, mainly in Australia and New Zealand," he says.
Image copyright Philipe Laurent Image caption The trees grow the cork back over a nine-year period

Fast-forward to today, and Mr de Jesus says that Amorim is leading efforts to prevent any TCA infected corks getting into the system.
It does this using a process it calls "NDTech", whereby it uses hi-tech sensor machines to weed out any bad corks.
Mr de Jesus adds: "We can do that analysis not in minutes... but in seconds.
We can now give an individual guarantee, cork by cork."
And despite the big move to screw-caps, particularly still in Australia and New Zealand, Amorim now produces 4.4 billion corks per year, out of a total 12 billion industry-wide.
This compares with 4.7 billion screw-caps per annum, and 1.8 billion bottles with plastic stoppers.
Despite the hard work of Amorim and other members of the Portuguese cork industry to tackle TCA, Australian wine boss Mitchell Taylor says he doesn't expect he will ever go back to corks.
Image copyright APcor Image caption A total 12 billion natural corks are made each year

Mr Taylor is managing director of Taylors Wines (known as Wakefield Wines in the UK), based in South Australia's Clare Valley.
In 2004 it was the first major Australian winery to decide to seal all its wines under screw-cap.
"We were finding we had TCA and random oxidation problems with up to 10-15% of our wines, and we were able to eliminate that overnight," he says.
"The world has moved forward, I compare going back to cork as the horse and cart, it's a great form of transport, but really we've moved on in modern technology."
Yet while Mr Taylor is adamantly against natural corks, it remains the case that the vast majority of top European and American wines are still sealed with them.
In addition to being a case of tradition, and a continuing perception that the wine will be of better quality, natural corks have a proven record over the centuries of helping fine wines to mature by letting in tiny amounts of oxygen, something screw-caps cannot properly replicate.
Grgich Hills Estate in California's Napa Valley is one winemaker that is mainly sticking with natural corks, which it uses on 70% of its wines.
It typically pays about 70-93 cents (52-69p) per high-quality Portuguese cork.
Image copyright Taylors Image caption Australian wine firm Taylors was the first in that country to switch completely to using screw-caps

Ivo Jeramaz, Grgich's vice president of grape growing and production, says: "These days our research points to three to five corks per 1,000 being affected by TCA, not three to five per 100, so it's far less than it used to be."
He adds that "top notch expensive wines" need natural corks, "just as you wouldn't drink it from a paper cup".
More stories from the BBC's Business Brain series looking at interesting business topics from around the world:

Are changeable heels the end to women's sore feet?
Do the colours you wear at work matter?
Turning the dead into vinyl records

How Sicilian oranges are being made into clothes

Grgich doesn't use any screw-caps at all, and instead for the other 30% of its bottles it is experimenting with a new cork called "Diam".
Developed by a French firm of the same name, Diam corks are made by milling cork into granules which are treated with carbon dioxide to remove any TCA, before being pressed and glued into a cork shape.
Diam corks are now growing quickly in popularity, particularly among French winemakers aiming at the middle market.
Image copyright Diam Image caption Diam corks are made from treated cork granules, which are then pressed into shape

Mark Pardoe, a master of wine at UK merchant Berry Bros & Rudd, says that natural cork is still the "preferred closure for wines that require cellarage".
He adds: "Its elasticity and ability to allow a very gentle oxidation when a wine is correctly stored makes it a still-unsurpassed closure for long-term wines.
"Progress in cork processing methods mean that some cork producers are now able to give guarantees, and traceability, to insure the drinker against increasingly infrequent "corked" bottles.
"And, as such, cork is still the premium wine closure, although every premium winery experiments with other closures."
The Portuguese cork industry is also keen to stress its environmental credentials, particularly the fact that trees are not cut down to harvest the cork.
Instead the cork is stripped from beneath the bark, and then grows back over a nine-year period.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Screw-caps can remove the threat of TCA, but some question whether they work for wines that need to be cellared for many years

Michael Colangelo, vice president of New York-based PR firm Colangelo & Partners, which is promoting Portuguese cork in the US, says: "Many people still don't understand the sustainability of cork, in that it's like shearing a sheep - you don't kill the sheep to get the wool."
Ramiro Baptista, manager of cork firm Portugalia, adds that the global wine industry is large enough for all forms of closure to have a bright future.
Image copyright James Whitty Image caption 12oz Coffee Joint founder David Nathaniel says the chain has been welcomed in Italy

In Italy coffee is synonymous with espresso, downed quickly and without ceremony.
But a new breed of American-style coffee shops is drawing in younger Italians.
"We like it here because we can study and be connected online.
We both prefer American-style coffee than Italian and we love the different style of cakes," say Aurora, 13, and Linda, aged 14.
It's just before lunchtime and we're sitting inside 12oz Coffee Joint - a self-styled American coffee shop near the Duomo in Milan.
'Un caffe'

Italy is viewed by many as the world capital of coffee - wherever you turn you see a bar serving espresso, cappuccino or caffe macchiato as well as the traditional brioche.
In these places, if you asked for a latte you would be served a glass of milk.
Ordering an espresso is also unnecessary; "un caffe" is all you need to say.
Coffee and espresso are synonymous in Italy.
But in here the drink options are far more exotic, with americano, iced cinnamon lattes or caramel macchiatos all on offer.
It's not just the drinks.
The counter is piled high with a vast array of doughnuts, muffins, brownies and bagels.
Image copyright James Whitty Image caption 12oz Coffee Joint has a coffee shop near the Duomo in Milan.
One customer, Alberto, who is 32, says it's these kinds of differences that have drawn him in.
"I enjoy coming here because it's stylish and has a young fresh feel to it compared to Italian coffee shops."
It's young Italians like these who are starting to shake up the traditional Italian coffee culture in Italy.
12oz Coffee Joint opened its first store in 2015 and there are now six in Milan and one opening soon in Verona.
The chain wants to expand to major cities such as Rome and Venice.
But what made Italian founder David Nathaniel want to sell American coffee in his home country?
Image copyright James Whitty Image caption The chain also serves US-style cakes

"I have two children who are teenagers - whenever they went abroad they always wanted to have photos posted on social media with big cups of coffee with whipped cream," he says.
"Then one day I saw a typical woman from Milan with her Louis Vuitton handbag with a big cup of coffee and she became my muse.
"If she was walking the streets of Milan with a big cup of coffee then the time had come."
Despite the non-traditional concept, he says the coffee shop was broadly welcomed when it opened.
"We had no anger or opposition but it was funny to see the faces of people who would come in and not understand the concept.
"Their reactions to drinking coffee in big paper cups was quite amusing - a lot of professionals in the market actually felt there was a need for such a chain."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Young Italian coffee drinkers are keen to experiment

Jonny Forsyth, global drinks analyst at market research firm Mintel, says traditional coffee shops have failed to keep up with changing tastes.
"Italian coffee shop culture is so traditional that it has determinedly ignored modern consumer trends.
"It is also very rare to find flavoured coffee, although some outlets in the north serve coffee with Nutella or hazelnut paste," he says.
Changing trends

Yet Mintel's research has found that Italians, particularly younger ones, are keen to experiment beyond the traditional espresso.
Its research showed a majority (64%) of 16-24 year-old Italian coffee drinkers like trying different flavours of coffee (e.g.
vanilla, hazelnut) at home compared to 42% of those aged 55 and above.
Mintel also found that over three-quarters of 16-24-year-olds who drink coffee in a typical week like the taste of milky coffee compared to 60% of regular Italian coffee drinkers aged 45 and above.
Image copyright James Whitty Image caption Arnold Coffee, founded by Alfio Bardolla (right), opened in 2009

It's not just 12oz Coffee Joint which has emerged to take advantage of these changing tastes.
US-style chain Arnold Coffee opened its first shop in 2009, also in Milan.
It now has nine coffee shops with more set to open in Florence and Rome.
Italian founder Alfio Bardolla says the fact that their shop allows customers to stay longer and linger over a coffee is one of their big attractions.
"The Italian bar is based on a 'drink up and leave' mentality and if you're there for more than 10 minutes they get annoyed.
"We thought that if McDonald's had succeeded [in Italy], then so would American coffee."
Image copyright James Whitty Image caption At Arnold Coffee customers stay longer than in traditional bars

Mr Bardolla baulks at the idea that selling US-style coffee means the quality suffers, arguing the fact it is often diluted means they have to use better quality coffee.
"People do not come to us to drink an espresso but an espresso with our coffee is even better than the traditional bars.
Our price is higher but the quality is higher."
One self-confessed coffee addict and Arnold customer, 22-year-old Alessia, is convinced.
"It's lighter than Italian coffee and I love that you can carry it around with you in the big paper cups," she says.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Starbucks says it is opening in Italy with "humility and respect"

Coffee giant Starbucks is betting on more US coffee fans like Alessia when it opens its first store in the country next year, a high-end, high-concept roastery in Milan two minutes from the Duomo and the historic Galleria Vittorio Emanuele II.
The American coffee chain has promised to enter the birthplace of the espresso "with humility and respect".
But what do traditional Italian coffee owners think about the shift in culture?
Image copyright James Whitty Image caption Caffe Rigoletto owner Vito Fortunato says they make US requests "the Italian way"

Vito Fortunato, owner of Caffe Rigoletto in Salsomaggiore Terme, in the province of Parma, says he believes American-style coffees, particularly the flavoured ones "are really bad for you".
Even when they get "American requests" he says they make it "the Italian way".
"In Italy for someone who wants to have a different style coffee we put a small drop of flavoured syrup or brandy or a drop of fresh whipped cream or a small scoop of ice cream but this is very traditionally Italian."
But he says the biggest loss from the growing numbers of young Italians choosing American-style coffee shops over their local neighbourhood espresso bars is nothing to do with flavour, but with culture.
"The customer sees the bar as a place to open up, to confide and have a chat and a point of human contact between two people.
"I see that this is slowly disappearing, but it is very important for our lives."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Do students want to have debates?
Or stop other people from speaking?
Free speech - too much of it or too little of it - has become one of the thorniest and most emotive subjects for universities.
At what point do strongly held views become extremism or hate speech?
There have been violent flashpoints, particularly in US universities, about what can be said about race, gender and sexuality.
And when does the ultra-liberal assertion of "safe spaces" and limits on language become intolerant and controlling?
Or are these just first-world problems, missing the point about what freedom is really about?
So as new academic terms begin, where are the significant battlegrounds?
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption 'It gets lonely': Being conservative on a liberal campus

1) In Hong Kong, students are under pressure to stop putting up posters and flying banners promoting independence from China.
University campuses are being told that this is not an issue of freedom of speech, but an attack on the principle of Hong Kong's "one country, two systems" relationship with China.
The posters are put up by students on "democracy walls", but authorities say this is an "abuse" of freedom.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Security for a campus speech at Berkeley cost the university $600,000

2) The dollar price of free speech: The University of California, Berkeley, was a cradle of the "free speech movement" in the United States in the 1960s, when students were protesting against the Vietnam war.
It's still on the front line of debates about free speech.
Right-wing commentator Ben Shapiro spoke at Berkeley this month, drawing angry protests from opponents.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Torches have been banned at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville

The university authorities said the security operation around the event cost them $600,000 (440,000).
Another right-wing free speech event, also likely to provoke another protest, is planned for the autumn.
3) Looking west or east?
: The Central European University in Budapest in Hungary has been at the centre of an international struggle, which the university says could see it being shut down.
The university, originally funded by the liberal philanthropist George Soros, says it is being targeted by an unsympathetic, nationalist government.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Protesters in Budapest want to protect the threatened Central European University

Hungary's government says the university needs to comply with new higher education regulations - and negotiations in the United States have been trying to break the deadlock.
4) Illiberal liberals?
: Republican lawmakers in the US state of Ohio are trying to put campus free speech into legislation - challenging what they see as excessive political correctness.
They warn that a "mentality is creeping into our culture that views disagreeable speech as inherently hateful, or even violent".
They want to stop universities setting up designated "free speech zones" on campus, where controversial opinions can be aired, arguing that the whole university should be open to free speech.
5) Torch ban: After the confrontations between torch-carrying white supremacists and protesters at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, the universities have clarified that carrying such "open flames" will not be permitted by the campus police.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption US campuses have seen conflicts over what views should be allowed to be expressed

It shows the power of the symbol in arguments over free speech, with the burning torches evoking images of the Ku Klux Klan and far-right rallies.
There are other measures toughening up security, but university authorities say that carrying "open flame devices" will be prohibited.
6) Turkey trial: The trial of a university lecturer accused of terror-related charges began last week in Turkey.
Nuriye Gulmen, and a primary school teacher also facing charges, have been on a hunger strike protest and were not present at the court in Ankara, with supporters warning of their ill-health.
They lost their jobs in a crackdown that followed the failed coup attempt against Turkey's president last year.
Their case has become a symbol of the 150,000 people claiming to have been sacked or suspended since the coup attempt.
7) Carving out an argument: US universities have been caught in a series of symbolic battles over statues, the names of buildings and what constitutes campus freedom.
Much of this has been about representations of race and identity.
Image copyright EPA Image caption Hong Kong students are being told to take down posters and banners calling for independence

Yale has decided that it needs to remove a 1920s carving from one of its buildings which "depicts a Puritan settler holding a musket pointed toward the head of a Native American".
The university says leaving it in place could create the "unintended effect" of endorsing an image which shows a "scene of warfare and colonial violence toward local Native American inhabitants".
The push for gender neutrality has also seen the university switch away from the traditional term "freshman" for new students to using "first year".
8) Chelsea Manning, imprisoned after giving government information to Wikileaks, was named as a visiting fellow at the Institute of Politics at Harvard Kennedy School last week.
But two days later the university rescinded the appointment describing it as a "mistake".
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Harvard reversed its decision to offer a post to Chelsea Manning

Harvard said in appointing her they wanted to hear from people who "significantly influenced events in the world even if they do not share our values".
This raised the recurrent issue about being free to hear opposing views.
But after ex-acting CIA director Michael Morell resigned from his post at the university over the decision, Harvard reversed her appointment.
9) "My job is not to make you feel comfortable."
The University of Oxford vice chancellor, Louise Richardson, warned fellow university leaders that they had a responsibility to protect free speech on campus.
She told them that students needed to confront views with which they disagreed, even if it meant addressing attitudes that made them "uncomfortable" or they found offensive.
Image copyright EPA Image caption Should universities focus on protecting free speech or preventing provocation?
But she then became embroiled in a row over whether the example she used showed a lack of opposition to homophobia, with calls for an apology and clarifications that she had been "completely misconstrued".
10) North Korea: What are their worries about free movement?
A private, English-language university in the country, the Pyongyang University of Science and Technology, has been struggling with getting overseas staff through the US travel ban, but opened as planned this term.
Meanwhile Kim Il-sung University, working on a technology project forecasting exchange rates, has only "success" to report.
More from Global education

Ideas for the Global education series?
Get in touch.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Toyota blazed a trail in hybrid car design with its Prius

Are electric cars really about to take over from the old-fashioned internal combustion engine?
Judging by some of the headlines we've seen recently, you could be forgiven for thinking petrol and diesel engines were about to be consigned to the scrap heap.
Yet the reality is rather different.
There is no question that the car industry is undergoing a radical change.
At this year's Frankfurt Motor Show - currently under way in the German city - the buzzword throughout the cavernous exhibition halls has been "electrification".
The day before the show, for example, Volkswagen said it would build electrified versions of every model in its range - including those sold under the Audi, Skoda, Seat and Porsche brands - by 2030.
The same evening, Mercedes' parent company Daimler said it would have electrified versions of its own models by 2022.
Image copyright EPA Image caption It's not just new cars, countries will need to invest in new infrastructures for fuelling electric vehicles

Other companies, including Volvo, Jaguar Land Rover and Honda have made similar pledges.
These are undoubtedly ambitious plans - but it is important to recognise their limitations.
They are not saying they will get rid of diesel or petrol cars completely.
They are simply promising to make electrified versions of them available.
It is also important to recognise what "electrified" actually means.
It can, of course, refer to fully electric battery powered vehicles.
But it can also be used to describe hybrids - and hybrids come in many forms.
A plug-in hybrid, for example, has a large battery capacity and is often capable of running entirely on electric power at least part of the time, though it will have a petrol engine as well.
One type of plug-in hybrid, often referred to as a range-extended EV, is essentially an electric car with a small petrol engine that acts as an on-board generator."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Mercedes unveils its F1-derived hybrid hypercar

A strong or full hybrid, like the Toyota Prius, uses a relatively powerful electric motor alongside a conventional engine, but you don't need to plug it in for a recharge.
A mild hybrid, meanwhile, is effectively a conventional car, equipped with a small electric motor that allows the engine to shut down temporarily when the car is stopped at traffic lights, for example.
It can also be used to improve acceleration and power auxiliary systems.
To fulfil their commitments, carmakers could simply offer a range of mild hybrids.
They are cheaper to produce than full hybrids, yet they can offer significant benefits in terms of performance and fuel consumption.
More and more cars are already being built in this way.
Although their pledges may sound a bit more dramatic than they really are, it is true that carmakers are investing a great deal of money in new electric models.
Volkswagen, for example, says that by 2025, one in four of its cars could be battery powered.
BMW says it will be offering 12 pure-electric models by the same date.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption "A hydrogen society needs to be created," says Toyota's Johan van Zyl

So what is driving the move towards electric vehicles?
There are several factors at play.
The launch of the Tesla Model S in 2012 proved that electric cars could perform as well as their petrol equivalents and have a decent battery range, albeit at a high price.
Since then the cost of lithium-ion batteries has fallen significantly, while battery management technology has improved, making that kind of performance more affordable.
Secondly, anti-pollution legislation is being tightened in key markets.
Here in Europe, for example, there will be new limits in force for emissions of carbon dioxide from 2021.
Those limits are much stricter than the current ones, and they are based on the average level of pollution produced by a manufacturer's entire fleet.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption From 2021 there will be new limits on carbon dioxide emissions in Europe

So by producing zero-emissions cars, manufacturers will find it much easier to meet the targets.
The same logic applies to building more hybrids.
Both of these factors were already affecting the major manufacturers' long term thinking, when in September 2015, another factor came into play.
The diesel emissions scandal cast an unwelcome spotlight on the industry - exposing not just sharp practice, but the fact that diesel cars in particular routinely produced far more harmful pollution than official figures would suggest.
The result was a backlash from politicians and consumers - while Volkswagen, the architect of the scandal, tried to restore its reputation by becoming a leader in electric car technology.
As the VW Group chief executive Matthias Mueller told me in Frankfurt: "We've got the message of course.
Consumers want clean vehicles.
People want clean air, and we want to make our contribution."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption VW is still having to deal with the aftermath of the diesel emissions scandal

Electrification was on the cards long before the VW scandal erupted.
But the events of two years ago may well have helped to accelerate the process.
Now, it seems that carmakers are making a virtue out of a necessity, trying to gain some useful PR mileage from a process that was, in reality, more or less inevitable.
So, too, are politicians.
Talk of banning petrol and diesel cars may sound dramatic, draconian even.
But here in the UK, for example, the proposed ban doesn't cover hybrids.
Industry experts say that by 2040 - the date when the ban is due to take effect - it is highly unlikely there will be any non-hybrid cars left on the market anyway.
Then there is the question of infrastructure.
More Technology of Business

Image copyright Getty Images

There are currently about 7,300 charging points for electric cars in the UK, and the number is increasing at a rate of about 10 per day, according to ZapMap.
Globally, the figure is around two million, according to the International Energy Agency.
Clearly, if millions of petrol and diesel cars are to be replaced by electric versions, then we will need a huge investment in charging infrastructure, or they won't be going anywhere.
They will also need batteries - a lot of batteries.
And the power to charge them has to be generated somewhere.
That will take time and money.
Meanwhile, hybrid cars offer a convenient and effective stop-gap.
As BMW's chief executive Harald Krueger puts it, petrol and diesel cars "are not dead yet".
"You will see a transition time, with investments in combustion engines - petrol engines, diesel engines, very efficient engines," he says.
"But long term, we will see sustainable mobility with e-mobility."
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Audi's Aicon autonomous electric concept - but will such concepts really become reality soon?
VW Group's Matthias Mueller agrees.
"There will be a coexistence between internal combustion engines and electric drive systems for a certain period.
I can't tell you how long that will be," he says.
"And that's because we do have to get the right infrastructure in place... we have to create the battery capacity.
"We're talking about enormous capacity here, and it has yet to be created."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption China is experiencing a growing problem of financial fraud

Li Wenxing was starting a new life.
In May, the young university graduate left his home in rural China on the offer of work with a software company in the city of Tianjin.
But the job was a scam and Mr Li was swept into the web of a gang running a pyramid scheme.
Two months later he was dead.
The tragedy, which is being investigated, sparked national outrage and has illuminated the growing problem of financial fraud and its devastating impact on communities in China.
"It's almost an epidemic, especially in rural areas," says Violet Ho, senior managing director at Kroll.
Pyramid schemes

Pyramid schemes are flourishing in parts of the country where education levels are low.
The schemes prey on the vulnerable, typically young people and the elderly, with the promise of employment or lucrative returns for direct sales of products like cosmetics or health supplements.
Victims are assured of great fortune if they recruit more investors into the operation.
"They give the illusion to naive people that they can get rich quickly without risk," says Ms Ho, who investigates financial systems and advises on China.
Peer-to-peer lending and virtual currencies have fuelled the spread of other investing scams, luring victims with little financial knowledge.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Parts of rural China have been particularly hard hit by financial scams

Pyramid - and Ponzi - schemes rely on attracting a constant stream of new investors, and some of the funds raised are paid to earlier backers.
Ms Ho says the Chinese swindles are distinct from frauds typically seen in Western societies due to the lack of sophistication of the investors involved.
Victims have sunk everything they have - borrowing money and even selling their houses - on the promise of even bigger returns.
Chinese social media site Weibo is awash with talk of pyramid schemes.
"I've lost count of the people who've been trapped", said one user.
Social problem

It's a social problem the government is fighting to contain.
Victor Shih, associate professor in political economy and China expert at the University of California San Diego, says a combination of factors have spurred the spread of these scams.
"The rapid proliferation of pyramid schemes is caused by high growth in living costs, especially housing costs, which enticed many to look for higher returns - and previously light regulation at the local level," Prof Shih says.
Under pressure to grow their economies, local governments had in the past endorsed some dubious investment schemes - without properly understanding them - on the belief they would deliver strong returns and spur growth.
"Pyramid schemes were [one popular idea] which they thought could keep driving economic growth," says Prof Ning Zhu, deputy dean of the National Institute of Financial Research at Tsinghua University.
"I don't think this is happening any more," he adds.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Low levels of financial literacy in China has helped fuel the spread of pyramid schemes

Government crackdown

Authorities are paying more attention.
The government acknowledges the number of big pyramid scheme cases has shot up, and that organisers are using various channels to lure and cheat unsuspecting Chinese out of their money and assets.
"Pyramid schemes directly harm the market's economic order and social harmony and stability," Beijing said in a recent statement.
China is carrying out three months of co-ordinated action to investigate and clean-up the practice of pyramid selling.
As part of the crackdown, more than 100 arrests were made in southern China last month, targeting individuals over their suspected links to a 360m yuan (42.3m) pyramid scheme.
Authorities had at least one major bust last year - breaking up a 50bn yuan online finance scam which was suspected of defrauding 900,000 investors.
And while there may be more reaction from the government - the number of pyramid schemes investigated in 2016 jumped 19% on the previous year - the tactics of the con artists at work in China appear to be getting more insidious.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The government says pyramid schemes harm Chinese society

Sinister tactics

Days before Li Wenxing died, the young man reportedly told his family "No matter who calls for money, don't give it to them."
Soon after arriving in Tianjin Mr Li became distant, hard to reach by phone and began asking friends for loans, according to Reuters.
Mr Li was found to have drowned in a small pond outside of Tianjin, the report said.
Police said he had been involved in a pyramid scam and investigations are continuing.
Kroll's Violet Ho says the methods like the extortion believed to have been used by the group in Mr Li's case are common.
She says scams in China have become more sinister as organisers illegally detain people and use intimidation tactics on victims, bringing the problem to a "different level".
Image copyright Getty Images

As many as 400,000 passengers across the EU could have flights with Ryanair cancelled between now and the end of October.
The airline said on Saturday it would cancel 40-50 flights every day for the next six weeks, after it "messed up" the planning of pilot holidays.
All of Ryanair's flights are short or medium-haul, and the vast majority are to destinations within the EU, meaning that passengers are entitled to some very specific rules on compensation.
On its website the airline says: "We understand that flight cancellations may cause distress, and we will accommodate your option of choice wherever possible, while complying with EU Regulation 261/2004."
What are my options if my flight is cancelled?
You can apply for a refund.
Even if it is only the outbound portion of the flight that is cancelled, you can still get a refund for the return leg, assuming you do not want to use it.
Or you can chose an alternative flight - perhaps on an earlier or later date.
In most cases Ryanair will offer you another flight with them.
However, the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) says that if an alternative airline is flying there "significantly sooner", then you have the right to be booked onto a different airline.
Ryanair is offering alternative flights/refunds via this page.
However, chief executive Michael O'Leary has said that Ryanair would not book passengers onto flights with rival carriers.
"We will not pay for flights on other airlines, no.
It is not part of the EU261 entitlement," he said, referring to European passenger rights legislation covering cancelled flights.
Image copyright Getty Images

Can I claim compensation for the inconvenience?
You can claim compensation - but it is based strictly on the time of your actual arrival compared to when you originally expected to arrive.
It also depends when Ryanair told you about the cancellation.
If it gave you more than 14 days' notice, it does not have to pay any compensation at all.
However, so far all passengers have been given less than a week's warning.
If Ryanair books you onto a flight with another airline, you are still entitled to compensation.
What if I have received less than 14 days' notice?
If your re-booked flight arrives more than four hours later than the flight you were originally booked on, you can claim 250 euros - around 220.
For flights over 1,500km, known as medium-haul, that goes up to 400 euros - around 350.
However, if the new flight re-routes you via another destination, and you end up with a longer flight as a result - you can still claim compensation, but at a lower rate.
If you are flying on a short-haul flight, and the re-routed flight is at least two hours late, you can claim 125 euros - around 110.
If a medium-haul re-routed flight is at least three hours late, you can claim 200 euros - around 176 - depending on the time of take-off.
What if I have received less than seven days' notice?
If you receive less than a week's notice of the cancellation, the criteria for compensation are tighter.
In this case, your short-haul flight only needs to arrive more than two hours after your original scheduled arrival time for you to claim 250 euros.
If flying more than 1,500km, and the flight is at least three hours late, you can claim 400 euros.
If a new short-haul flight is re-routed, taking off more than one hour before your original flight, but arriving two hours after it, you can claim 125 euros.
A re-routed medium-haul flight needs to arrive at least three hours late for compensation to be paid.
In such a case passengers would get 200 euros.
Image copyright Getty Images

Should I get a refund and arrange my own alternative flight?
You are free to do this, but you will then lose out on any right to compensation.
If you cancel the flight completely, remember that you may not even get a refund.
I don't know whether my flight has been cancelled: What should I do?
So far Ryanair has only published the details of a few of the flights that have been cancelled.
However, it has promised the details of all the cancelled flights will be on its website over the next 24 hours.
This will leave a lot of people not knowing whether their trip will go ahead.
But if you decide to cancel or change your flight without knowing whether it will be cancelled officially, you have no special rights under the European Regulations.
The CAA advises passengers to go through the airline for that reason.
Am I entitled to additional help?
If you find yourself stranded at the airport, you might also be entitled to an extra payment to cover short-term costs.
For example, if you have had to wait an extra day to take the new flight you should be given accommodation, food, drink and access to communications - such as the cost of a couple of telephone calls.
Image copyright Habito Image caption Daniel's career has been eventful

Daniel Hegarty, the founder of mortgage broker app Habito, does not have the physique of a tech geek.
The 35-year-old's arms are muscled and densely covered in tattoos, a legacy from his time, perhaps, as a successful guitarist.
Even by the standards of tech entrepreneurs, Daniel's background is unconventional.
Leaving school in London before he was 16, he says: "I guess I was a bit of a rebel.
I wanted to do what I wanted to do.
"I just took days off, and when the local guitar shop offered me extra days' work, I decided I'd cut down on my school days."
Then he got suspended.
But despite departing secondary education without any qualifications, it was not the disaster it would have been for most.
A talented guitarist, his punk group, Serum, got signed by the same record label as Boy George, and went on the road earning the princely sum of 100 a week per band member.
Image copyright Daniel Hegarty Image caption Daniel spent a decade as a professional musician and songwriter

Before he was 20-years-old, Daniel was living in Los Angeles.
But he gave up on becoming famous in his own right to instead write for, and play, with headline acts such as Robbie Williams, S Club 7, Pink and the Sugababes.
After some 10 years of this, he'd had enough: "It's a strange job.
To make money you have to make a certain amount of bad music.
"And I came to the conclusion I was tired of staring at the back of teenage pop stars."
So he moved back to the UK in 2007 with nothing to do, before a music industry contact came to the rescue.
"A friend of mine was an opera singer who had a pop hit as Tina B," he says.
"I called Tina and asked if she knew anyone who could give someone without any qualifications a job.
"She said she knew a couple of crazy tech guys who needed people."
A meeting over a cup of coffee got him in.
The crazy tech guys turned out to be nucleus of the subsequently much-criticised payday loan lender Wonga.
"There were just a handful of us," says Daniel.
"Between us, we did whatever needed doing."
At Wonga he discovered that he did, in fact, have another string to his bow other than music.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Daniel Hegarty: "I didn't chose Wonga, Wonga chose me"

"It quite quickly emerged I was a massive geek," he says.
"I'd spend my evenings reading text books on pure maths, and doing online courses from Stanford University [in California].
"Within a couple of months I was running a lot of the tech stuff."
But after a warm welcome from borrowers, Wonga's name became increasingly toxic.
In 2014 it wrote off 220m of debts for 330,000 struggling customers after discussions with regulators, and put in place new checks as to whether people could afford the loans they were taking out.
Was Daniel embarrassed to say he'd worked at Wonga?
"I didn't choose Wonga, Wonga chose me."
But, as one of its designers, could he be accused of failing to assess the risks properly?
"My job was fundamentally building the website - how to get someone to show up and share their info, and how to get the money lent when it was wanted, and collected when it was due."
He left as Wonga mushroomed to an international business with 1,000 employees, and he was, again, spending too much time on the road.
Once more at a loose end, Daniel did what rock musicians are often thought to do: "I sat in my pants on my sofa."
Image copyright Daniel Hegarty Image caption The idea for Habito came from Daniel's attempt to buy his first home

The spark of the idea for online mortgage brokerage Habito came from his attempt to buy his first home.
Daniel nearly lost out on the property after a series of mistakes by his mortgage broker.
He says they put down his wife's name, twice, alongside his own name.
This held up the process for 10 days, and when the form was corrected the third, extra name that was removed was not the duplicated wife, but his own.
Now it appeared his wife had sparked a clone who was also part of the loan.
The seller was on the brink of pulling out.
Daniel says: "I thought deeply about what I could do for a couple of months, and this is the best I came up with.
But I knew nothing about mortgages."
So he started studying the industry.
He spoke to mortgage brokers, lenders, and regulators in order to understand how it all worked, and he set about building Habito.
One criticism of the Habito app is that it removes the human touch.
Daniel says that at Habito there is a point at which you can speak to a real human being, but critics still say such an online-based system is less likely to find the perfect type of product for the borrower.
Jonathan Harris, director of independent mortgage broker Anderson Harris, says: "There are so many additional criteria that are required nowadays in a mortgage market search.
For example, the type of employment/self-employment, how income is made up, the type of contract, the type of property.
"While we welcome anything that speeds up the often torturously slow mortgage application process, face-to-face advice or over the phone will have a place for a while yet - although mortgage lenders and brokers need to improve their technological offerings."
Image copyright Habito Image caption Habito has now lent 250m to 50,000 borrowers, says Daniel

As it stands, the world of mortgage broking is highly fragmented.
The UK's biggest player, London and Country, has only 6% of the domestic market to itself, so there is plenty of scope for challengers.
Daniel says there is simply "no visible limit to Habito's growth".
The company has been going for 16 months, he says, and every month it has grown 20%, so "every week is our busiest ever".
He says the London-based company has so far lent 250m to 50,000 borrowers, and employees have grown from eight to 45.
Daniel adds that running a proper business, initially seemed as unreal as being a rock star.
"At first I felt like I was dreaming, going round telling people I was the 'made up' CEO of a 'made-up' business."
But he says he can still be awkward.
"I will do what I want to do".
Daniel has also been able to return an early favour.
Remember the former opera-pop star?
She's now working for him as his corporate lawyer.
"There are quite a few second lifers in my business," he says.
Image copyright Getty Images

In Shanghai, an Uber driver logs into an online forum.
He is not looking for a passenger.
He is looking for someone to pretend to be a passenger.
He finds a willing taker.
He pretends to collect the customer and drop her at the airport.
In fact, they never meet.
Then he goes online and sends her the agreed fee: about $1.60 (1.20).
Or perhaps the driver goes a step further, making up the other person as well as the journey.
He goes to the online marketplace Taobao, and buys a hacked smartphone.
That lets him create multiple fake identities.
He uses one to arrange a ride with himself.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Uber invites customers to rate drivers, and drivers to rate customers

Why?
Because someone's willing to pay him to give people lifts in his car.
Rational economic incentives

Investors in Uber and their rivals have run up billions of dollars of losses - in China, and elsewhere - paying people to share car journeys.
Naturally, they're trying to stamp out the imaginary journeys, but they're convinced subsidising genuine rides is a smart idea.
This all seems bizarre, perverse, even.
But everyone involved is rationally pursuing economic incentives.
To see what's going on, we have to understand a phenomenon that's spawned many buzzwords: "crowd-based capitalism", "collaborative consumption", "the sharing economy", "the trust economy".
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy highlights the inventions, ideas and innovations which have helped create the economic world in which we live.
It is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
Suppose I'm about to drive myself from downtown Shanghai to the airport.
I occupy only one seat in my car.
Now suppose you live a block away, and you also need to catch a flight.
Why don't I give you a lift?
You could pay me a modest sum, less than you'd pay for some other mode of transport.
You're better off.
I'm better off.
There are two big reasons why this might not happen.
The first, and most obvious, is if neither of us knows the other exists.
'Coincidental wants'

Until recently, the only way you could advertise your desire for a lift would be to stand at a junction, holding up a sign saying "airport".
It's not very practical - especially since the plane won't wait.
This function of matching people who have coincidental wants is among the most powerful ways the internet is reshaping the economy.
Traditional markets work perfectly well for some goods and services, but they're less useful when the goods and services are urgent or obscure.
Consider the plight of Mark Fraser.
It was 1995.
Mark Fraser gave lots of presentations, and he really wanted a laser pointer - they were new, and cool, but also forbiddingly expensive.
Image copyright EBAY Image caption For the first time, eBay connected people who wanted stuff with those who wanted to sell it

Fraser, however, was an electronics geek.
He was confident that if he could get his hands on a broken laser pointer, he could fix it.
But where on earth would he find a broken laser pointer?
The answer, now, is obvious - try Taobao, or eBay, or some other online marketplace.
Back then, eBay had only just started.
Its very first sale: Mark Fraser bought a broken laser pointer.
Mark Fraser was taking a bit of a risk.
He didn't know the seller.
He simply had to trust that they wouldn't simply pocket his $14.83 (11.20) then disappear.
For other transactions, the stakes are higher.
That's the second reason I might not give you a lift to Shanghai airport.
I've no idea who you are.
Perhaps you're planning to attack me and steal my car?
You might doubt my motives, too - perhaps I'm a serial killer.
Enablers of trust

After all, hitch-hiking was a popular pursuit a few decades ago, but fell out of fashion after some well-publicised murders.
Trust is an essential component of markets - so essential that we often don't even notice it, like a fish doesn't notice water.
In developed economies, enablers of trust are everywhere: brands, money-back guarantees, and of course repeat transactions with a seller who can be easily located.
But the new sharing economy lacks those enablers.
Why should we get into a stranger's car - or buy a stranger's laser pointer?
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption AirBnB emphasises the personal connection between hosts and guests

In 1997, eBay introduced a feature that helped solve the problem: Seller Feedback.
According to Jim Griffith, eBay's first customer service representative, "no-one had ever seen anything like [it]".
The idea of both parties rating each other after a transaction has become ubiquitous.
You buy something online - you rate the seller, the seller rates you.
You use a lift-sharing service, like Uber - you rate the driver, the driver rates you.
You stay in an AirBnB - you rate the host, the host rates you.
A few positive reviews set our mind at ease about a stranger.
Jim Griffith says he's "not so sure [eBay] would have grown without [seller feedback]".
Spare capacity

Online matching platforms would still exist, of course - eBay already did - but perhaps they'd be more like hitch-hiking today: a niche pursuit for the unusually adventurous, not a mainstream activity that's transforming whole sectors of the economy.
Platforms like Uber and AirBnB, eBay and TaskRabbit create real value.
Image copyright Alamy Image caption TaskRabbit connects customers with so-called "Taskers" to help with a variety of odd jobs

But there are losers.
For all the touchy-feeliness of the buzzwords - "collaborative", "sharing", "trust" - these models aren't just heart-warming stories of neighbours coming together to borrow each other's power drills.
They can easily lead to cut-throat capitalism.
More from Tim Harford:

How the smartphone became so smart

Just Google it: The student project that changed the world

Money via mobile: The M-Pesa revolution

The surprising ways video games have shaped the economy

Established hotels and taxi companies are aghast at competition from AirBnB and Uber.
Is that just an incumbent trying to suppress competition?
Or are they right when they complain that the new platforms are ignoring important regulations?
Risk of discrimination?
Many countries have rules to protect workers, like guaranteed hours or working conditions or a minimum wage.
And many people on platforms like Uber aren't just monetising spare capacity.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption A banner reading "No tourist flats" hangs from a balcony to protest against holiday rental apartments for tourists in Barcelona

They're trying to make a living, without the protections of a formal job - perhaps because a company liked Uber competed them out of a job.
Some regulations protect customers, too - for example, from discrimination.
Hotels can't legally refuse you a room if you're, say, a same-sex couple.
But hosts on AirBnb can choose to turn down guests after seeing not just your feedback but your photos.
AirBnb builds trust by emphasising the personal connection, and that means showing people prominent pictures of who they're dealing with.
That also invites people to act on their personal prejudices, consciously or otherwise.
People from ethnic minorities have been shown to suffer as a result.
What should be the 51st Thing?
Image copyright Getty Images

Tim Harford has discussed 50 things which he argues have made the modern economy.
Help choose the 51st thing by voting for one of these listener suggestions:

The credit card

Glass

Global Positioning System (GPS)

Irrigation

The pencil

The spreadsheet

You can vote on the 50 Things That Made the Modern Economy programme website.
Voting closes at 1200 GMT Friday 6 October 2017, and the winning 51st Thing will be announced in a special podcast on 28 October 2017.
How online matching platforms should be regulated is a dilemma causing lawmakers around the world to scratch their heads.
It matters because it's potentially huge business, especially in emerging markets where there isn't yet a culture of owning things like cars.
And it's a business with network effects: the more people use a platform, the more attractive it becomes.
That's why Uber and its rivals - Didi Chuxing in China, Grab in southeast Asia, Ola in India - have invested massively in subsidising rides and giving credits to new customers: they wanted to get big first.
And, naturally, some drivers have been tempted to defraud them.
Remember how they did it?
By using an online forum to find a willing fake customer, or an online marketplace to buy a hacked smartphone.
Matching people with the particular things they want really is useful.
Tim Harford writes the Financial Times's Undercover Economist column.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Lehman Brothers: Failed bank or malt whisky?
It's the bottle where everybody knows its name, and that is both its biggest asset and its biggest problem.
Lehman Brothers is no longer just the bank that defined the global financial crisis of a decade ago, it's now also a range of whiskies.
A London entrepreneur decided that the whole world should be able to taste one of the most profound company collapses in modern times.
On 15 September nine years ago 25,000 people lost their jobs when the bank went bankrupt.
James Green says he was inspired to keep the bank's name alive by the significance of those events.
"After living through the economic disaster of 2008, it really resounded with me.
I personally related to it, there were people in my neighbourhood, my family that were personally affected by the crash," he says.
He says his three different whiskies, one of which is named Ashes of Disaster, have been specially crafted to capture the flavour of the once mighty bank's fall from grace.
Image caption James Green says the whiskies aim to capture the flavour of Lehman Brothers' fall from grace

Getting the right to make them hasn't been a straightforward process.
Barclays Bank fought Mr Green's efforts to register a trademark for the whisky at New York State's Division of Corporations.
It unsuccessfully argued that it controls the Lehman Brothers name as part of the deal it struck to buy many of the bank's assets just after it went into meltdown and that the public would be confused into thinking the whisky was connected to the bank.
Barclays declined to comment on the dispute.
Using the Lehman's name to sell whisky is a clever idea according to Rob Malcolm.
The former head of marketing for the world's biggest whisky seller, Diageo, says he thinks "there will be an initial surge of appeal for its cleverness and its fun" but he says "after that's exhausted I'd be very surprised if there's much of a sustaining business there", although he does expect it to make a profit.
Dr Malcolm says that it will have greatest appeal amongst those working in the finance industry who can relate to the Lehman's story.
He adds that whisky aficionados are "disproportionately people who are economically successful", such as bankers.
Image copyright Lehman's Hardware Store Image caption Galen Lehman's eponymous family hardware store was founded in 1955

But for some firms, sharing a name with the collapsed Wall Street firm, has been more of a burden than a benefit.
Since 1955 Galen Lehman's eponymous family hardware store in the US state of Ohio has been selling everything from butter churns to oil lamps and handmade soap.
One of the company's wood stoves even featured in the film Back to the Future III.
But 20 years ago they nearly got burnt by Lehman Brothers, the bank.
It tried to stop the hardware store's efforts to become one of the first online retailers, when they registered the website lehmans.com.
Mr Lehman recalls that one of their lawyers called and said: "you can't use that name, that's us", to which he replied: "that's ironic it's me too".
Mr Lehman also remembers a similar call in the 1980s.
Despite the problems, some 40% of his business is now done online and over the ensuing years Mr Lehman says name confusion has probably helped send additional customers his way.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Lehman Brothers collapsed nine years ago on 15 September 2008

However it has also been a source of irritation and unwanted information, mainly thanks to the bank's own staff who sometimes confused the two companies domain names.
The bank's was www.lehman.com, while the shop's is www.lehmans.com.
"We started getting all these emails between employees of Lehman brothers in New York and in London", says Mr Lehman.
The messages gave him a front row seat into some of the worst excesses of the financial crisis.
Mr Lehman warned the bank and they eventually found a way to stop his inbox being inundated by emails that had "information about financial transactions, bank account numbers, all kinds of clearly confidential information".
However, Mr Lehman says it gave him a unique insight into the "play hard, work hard" culture of the bank.
"It seemed like as soon as people were outside of work they'd head straight to the corner pub.
And in one of the emails I remember in particular, one employee of Lehman Brothers was boasting to another employee of Lehman Brothers how he threw some bloke through a pub window the night before".
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Actively choosing to copy another firm's name is "audacious", says Anthony Shore

Of course, that kind of staff behaviour can be damaging to a company's reputation, something which goes hand in hand with a firm's name according to Anthony Shore.
Mr Shore runs Operative Words and is one of the world's most sought after people when it comes to naming new businesses and products, something which he can charge tens of thousands of dollars for.
While unintentional name coincidences are difficult to avoid, actively choosing to copy another firm's name is "audacious", says Mr Shore.
"It's hard to replicate the decades and decades of equity that are accrued when a company has been in business" for as long as the bank had, he says.
"The name becomes the crystallisation of everything that there is about the company, their reputation, their products their services for good or for ill," adds Mr Shore.
James Green acknowledges his whiskey plays on "the bad faith" people now have in the demised bank's name.
"We are playing on the Lehman brothers destruction," he says.
On both sides of the Atlantic there are many more court cases still to be heard over the failings of Lehman Brothers bank.
Even without the whiskey it's a name whose reputation is still being tested.
Image copyright Sulky Doll Image caption Fashion stylist Donna McCulloch says Instagram "is your shop front"

Instagram, the Facebook-owned photo app, has become a lucrative shop window for many small entrepreneurs.
So what are the secrets of its success?
When Facebook bought the photo app Instagram in 2012 for a cool $1bn (760m), eyebrows were raised at the value the tech giant had placed on this 18-month-old start-up.
Fast forward to 2017, and while Instagram may still be Facebook's little sister, it has built a sizeable community of 700 million users - dwarfing both Twitter and Snapchat.
With improved photo filters and the addition of Instagram Stories, a feature that lets users upload short videos that disappear after 24 hours, the platform has become a big hit with freelancers and small organisations looking to reach new audiences.
So how can you use it to make money?
"Instagram is your shop front," says Donna McCulloch, a fashion stylist who works under the name Sulky Doll.
"People don't ask for business cards any more - they ask for your 'handle' [Instagram nickname].
It's instant - you both get your phones out, and you're connected."
Image copyright Cat Meffan Image caption Yoga enthusiast Cat Meffan was "shocked and excited" by Instagram's marketing power

For yoga instructor Cat Meffan, the glamorous images she posts of herself in impressive yoga positions in picturesque locations around the world are intended to inspire and motivate her 77,000 followers.
But they also help her to build her business.
"I sold out my first yoga retreat in five days and all I did was put up one Instagram post," she says.
"I was extremely shocked and excited.
That's the power of Instagram."
Cat says she'll spend up to an hour crafting the captions alongside her photos - sometimes more than she'll spend on taking the photo itself.
"Sometimes I'll go out and do a photoshoot with my partner.
But usually it's me with a self-timer or holding the phone."
Like Donna, Cat finds adding hashtags to her photos a useful way of reaching a new audience.
A search for #yoga, for example, will bring up her images, along with those of others, while Donna's #OOTD (Outfit of The Day) are by far her most popular.
"It's a nice way of finding like-minded people," says Cat.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Singer Selena Gomez has 126 million followers on Instagram

Both women also use the Stories feature to post videos which, they say, show them as they really are - an antidote to the artificial gloss that many Instagrammers are notorious for adding to their images.
"Stories allow people to get more of a handle on you as a person and a brand," says Donna.
"Stories are like peeking behind the net curtains.
The biggest compliment is when people say you come across the same in real life as you do on your feed [Instagram page]."
Both Cat and Donna have built their Instagram pages tightly around a very specific theme - yoga/wellness and fashion, respectively.
That's important if you want to grow the number of people who follow you says Danny Coy, a photographer with 173,000 followers who now also works as an Instagram consultant.
For 300 a month his firm Vibrance says it can "typically" grow an account by 2,000 followers every four weeks.
Techniques for attracting followers include posting regularly and having a bank of interesting images to hand.
"You don't have to post every day, but engagement peaks - after 24 hours it's done," he says.
"It's important to stick to your niche."
Image copyright Danny Coy Image caption Photographer Danny Coy thinks Instagrammers should stay focused on what they do best

That's Instagram's advice, too.
"If you tell a different story every time you come to Instagram people will struggle to understand what you're trying to communicate," says Jen Ronan, the firm's head of small business for Europe, Middle East and Africa.
"Make sure you're thoughtful about what you want your customers to know and ensure that you're consistently reinforcing this over time."
Many of Danny's clients are companies, he says, who want to boost their numbers in order to look "legitimate" on the platform.
"From time to time it'll be an up-and-coming photographer who feels they can't get the numbers they deserve," he says.
"Everyone has to start somewhere."
Instagrammers with a significant number of followers may be approached by brands seeking "influencers" or "ambassadors" to represent them - for a fee.
More Technology of Business

Image copyright Getty Images

Incorporating brand products and imagery into photos and videos can be a lucrative sideline, although you have to make clear which content is sponsored under Instagram rules.
Donna McCulloch doesn't do it: "I think I would lose my integrity," she says, although she does admit to wearing clothes she's been given.
"But it's because I wanted it," she maintains.
And Cat Meffan says she spends a lot of time "saying no" to brands she doesn't think are right for her - but she does accept some.
"There's no set fee in the Instagram world," she says.
"You have a discussion [with the brand] and you have what you think you're worth."
Danny Coy says: "Eighteen months ago I could easily be turning over 2,000-3,000 a month in terms of influencer content."
But he says the market is tailing off because brands have wised up.
If an Instagrammer tags a brand in a post independently, the brand can use the image without payment.
"Most will ask first," he says.
"But once you've tagged them and put it on Instagram they don't have to ask your permission."
Image copyright Mariann Hardey Image caption Mariann Hardey thinks the Instagram community doesn't mind branded content if it's entertaining

But isn't it a bit of a turn-off being marketed to by people whose content you admire?
And do viewers sometimes not realise they are looking at paid-for content?
Mariann Hardey, assistant professor of marketing at Durham University, thinks the Instagram community isn't that gullible.
"It's easy to get het up that influencers are taking over and people don't understand they are seeing paid content, but the main users of Instagram are extremely savvy at being able to filter content that is branded or sponsored," she says.
What's most important is "whether the post is fun" and the pictures are "pretty", she adds.
So, the consensus seems to be that if the sponsored Instagrammer is well-liked and engaging, and the content is entertaining, Generation Instagram doesn't mind.
Image copyright Tanya Heath Paris Image caption Tanya Heath Paris shoes come with changeable heels

"Give a girl the right shoes and she can conquer the world," film star Marilyn Monroe once said.
But what constitutes "right" for women nowadays?
While high heels can make the wearer feel more confident, they aren't comfortable for long-term wearing.
This means that many women carry around a spare pair of flats with them.
But what if one pair of shoes could do both jobs?
Two small shoemaking firms, one in France and one in Germany, think they have the solution - women's shoes that come with interchangeable heels.
In her office in Ottawa, Canada, Olga Streltchenko is not just known as a top financial risk manager.
The 46-year-old also has a reputation for her shoes with removable heels.
"I am not very tall, so I like to be on high heels at work to enhance my presence," Mrs Streltchenko says.
"But I like to switch to lower, more comfortable heels to go home.
And if I plan on going out after work, I take a pair of metallic heels with me, which are more playful."
The shoes, by Tanya Heath Paris, allow women to change their style from professional to casual, fancy to comfortable, high to low, simply by switching their heels.
Image copyright Tanya Heath Image caption Tanya Heath, pictured, came up with the idea after moving to Paris

Designer Tanya Heath came up with the idea for her shoes after moving to Paris in 1996.
The Canadian, who spent years working for firms in the telecoms and energy sectors, was tired of having to change her shoes every time she arrived or left the office.
"I would arrive in ballerina pumps and change into heels, and my French colleagues ridiculed me," she says.
"They called me 'la New Yorkaise', because of the perception that New Yorkers wore trainers with suits while walking to work."
In 2009, with no experience in the fashion industry, Ms Heath finally began to develop the idea - all while juggling her responsibilities as a mother-of-three.
The biggest challenge was to make shoes that were comfortable and stylish, she says.
Since the 1980s, several firms had developed footwear with removable heels but none had been successful.
"Some of the other attempts out there were either awful-looking or worse, and they didn't really work, with the heels falling off," Mrs Heath says.
Image copyright Mime et moi Image caption Mime et moi's shoes come with a variety of heels

Backed by a team of designers and engineers, she came up with a "pick and choose concept".
First women buy the shoes, sandals, pumps or boots, then they buy the heels of their choice.
Prices range from 290 euros (260) for a pair of pumps, to 700 euros for a pair of leather boots.
Customers can choose between 400 different heels, which cost between 25 and 100 euros each.
Ms Heath says her first few years in business were tough, with no sales and little outside investment.
But the firm has since shipped to 72 countries and opened boutiques in France, Portugal and Canada.
"We get girls coming into the stores who are clearly still in school, and we have women shopping for shoes to wear to their daughter's wedding," Mrs Heath says.
The healthy sales at Tanya Heath Paris comes as the issue of whether women should wear high heels to work continues to spark controversy.
In April of this year, the Canadian province of British Columbia banned companies from being able to force women to wear high heels, while that same month the UK government rejected a petition calling for a similar ban in Britain.
Image copyright Press Association Image caption Women in British Columbia can no longer be forced to wear high heels to work

Hannah Rochell, founder of fashion blog EnBrogue.com, which promotes flat shoes, says: "While some women love to wear high heels, many would much rather opt for the comfort of flats, particularly when they're working in a business environment."
She adds that employers who enforce heels-only dress codes not only denigrate women, but are also "completely out of touch".
For firms that make shoes with removable heels, their products merely offer women choice.
Take Mime et moi, which was founded by four men from Munich, Germany.
After a night out together, they noticed that their partners had all gone home barefoot because their feet were sore from wearing high heels.
One of the men, a student of mechanical engineering and construction, then set about finding a solution.
"We immediately thought it was something that was absolutely missing," says Tim Haas, 31, one of the firm's co-founders.
Image copyright Mime et moi Image caption Mime et moi

"We wanted to create a shoe for women that looked amazing, sexy and feminine, but which had a comfort function."
They set up Mime et moi in 2013, and sold their first shoe three years later.
The firm's removable heels range from 3cm tall to 11cm, and cost between 175 and 205 euros.
More stories from the BBC's Business Brain series looking at quirky or unusual business topics from around the world:

Do the colours you wear at work matter?
Turning the dead into vinyl records

How Sicilian oranges are being made into clothes

Elvis still earning a fortune 40 years after his death

While some firms are focusing on removable heels, Californian Dolly Singh claims she has instead used engineering prowess to invent comfortable high heel shoes.
In 2013 she gave up her job as head of talent acquisition at SpaceX, the rocket company led by tech billionaire Elon Musk, to pursue a personal project - creating shoes that don't make your feet sore.
Ms Singh put together a team of experts from fashion, architecture, medicine and engineering, including specialists who worked for SpaceX and Nasa, the US space agency.
Image copyright Thesis Couture Image caption Dolly Singh gave up a job at SpaceX to create her shoes

She then launched her own business, Thesis Couture, and began selling the shoes that they had created.
"I ripped apart a pair of high heels to find out what was causing my feet to hurt so much," says Ms Singh.
"Inside each heel was a metal shank, which had no give, and was clearly not foot friendly."
The problem, she says, is that high heels are badly engineered.
Image copyright Thesis Couture Image caption Ms Singh says her soles "more intuitively" map the shape of the foot

"The way heels are currently designed causes 80% of one's body weight to be on the balls of the feet and also causes the toes to curve slightly inward.
"What we did was shift that back to 60% by re-engineering the structure and designing our own shank, which is made of a strong-but-flexible polymer."
Thesis Couture sells its footwear online and now ships to most countries.
Mrs Singh managed to raise more than $1.5m (1.1m) in investment, in 2015 and anticipates sales of $1m in 2017.
An Israeli company called Colu has launched a local digital currency in Liverpool, which aims to revitalise the local economy by cutting out the banks.
Will it achieve more than paper local currencies have?
To find out, Dougal Shaw followed the money trail.
Large chains like Starbucks, Costa or McDonald's, need not apply.
This new digital currency, known both as Colu and Local Pound Liverpool, is only open to locally owned and run businesses.
The idea is to encourage people to support the local economy.
Local currencies are common around the world - there are more than 10 in the UK.
The idea behind them is that if you spend your money with a locally based company instead of a big chain, more of that money will continue to circulate locally.
It won't be sucked out of your community into a company's foreign headquarters, or be paid out to shareholders.
But these currencies rarely attract enough users to have a real economic impact.
Could Colu be different?
As well as being purely digital - running on a smartphone app - it is operated by a well-funded tech company that specialises in cryptocurrencies.
In many other cases, local currencies are run by a small resource-starved team of enthusiasts and volunteers.
I went to see who is actually using this new currency, from a man buying his weekly sausages to the assistant mayor of Liverpool.
The customer

Foodie Ian Rasmussen is one of 17,000 Liverpudlians who have signed up to use Colu.
I meet him at a deli called Delifonseca, where he is buying some sausages.
"I believe in local businesses, so I like to promote what they are doing through my consumption.
One makes ethical decisions every day in the shops and I choose to buy locally because they tend to be more particular about where they get their food from.
They tend to be better employers and re-invest in the community."
The app is easy to use, he says, which is one of the things that makes it appealing.
But local currencies appeal to Ian for another reason.
"Since the financial crash of 2008, businesses have completely fallen out of love with the banking system and realised how ruinous it can be.
It's nice if local businesses can get round the inconvenience of banks that don't understand them."
When Ian pays for his sausages at the till, the transaction is made purely through the app, with no bank involved.
Ian has to buy his Colu pounds with normal UK pounds from his bank account.
They are worth exactly the same.
At the moment, a complimentary 5 is offered to new joiners and 10% is added every time money is paid in.
This is funded by Colu, in a bid to get more people like Ian to join.
Colu has a lot of venture capital behind it and investors are keen to see it grab market share, like Uber or Deliveroo.
The business owner

Candice Fonseca runs the deli where Ian purchased his sausages.
It is one of more than 100 businesses accepting the local digital currency.
"Liverpool has a very strong sense of identity and in this globalised time people are more conscious of their localities," she says.
"We have customers who don't carry wallets, it's inevitable that currency will become phone-based.
"It's also cheaper for us.
Customers can't really get their head around how much we pay for banking.
Even to put cash into the bank as a business, we have to pay.
The idea [with Colu] is to keep the money flowing locally.
We'd like to give staff the option of taking Colu as part of their wages eventually."
Normally businesses pay a charge every time a customer uses a debit card (about 0.5-1%) or credit card (about 1-2%).
A transaction in Colu incurs zero charge for the business.
However, whenever anyone converts Colu back to normal UK pounds - cashing out, as it is known - they pay 1.5% commission.
This is how Colu makes its money.
"If you pay another business [in Colu], then you don't pay anything, it's the cheapest way of taking money in that case.
We're not cashing anything out.
So we pay suppliers like Sugar & Lime, who we get our hire equipment from for outside catering, in Colu.
We spend thousands with them."
The supplier

More than a quarter of a million local pounds have circulated so far in Liverpool.
But somebody needs to cash out at some stage and take the hit of 1.5%.
One of them is Anthony O'Leary, who runs the catering equipment firm Sugar & Lime, which supplies Candice's deli.
His warehouse contains supplies from around the world, which can't be bought with local currency.
"We cash out our local currency because we're the end of the line.
There's nobody for us to spend the local pound with at present.
"But there is scope for products that we buy to be manufactured more locally, in which case we could continue the chain," he says.
Although Anthony would prefer to be paid in cash, he says it's not a clear-cut decision.
"I've still got banking charges one way or another.
Cash is expensive, credit card fees, it's all at a cost."
Colu also brings him new customers, he says, so in that sense it's a good investment.
Anthony can also see another way for him to pass on the Colu currency and avoid the 1.5% charge - he could pay business rates in the local currency.
This is what happens in Brixton and Bristol.
But first the council has to agree to it.
The councillor

Gary Millar is assistant mayor of Liverpool and a technology enthusiast.
He is a user of the app and a fan of local digital currencies in general.
"A council like Liverpool could use this to ensure money stays local.
We know when people spend money locally with an independent, 65p in the pound stays local.
If they spend it with a big global organisation, it will be about 30p instead," he says.
"I think it's wonderful if a small business can pay its business rates using a digital currency - I'd love that to happen."
He says this would only be a logical extension of what is happening at the moment, and hints that discussions are taking place about the possibility of allowing business rates, planning fees and even parking fine to be paid in the new currency.
Millar says he could also imagine the council paying people with it, as long as this was done on an opt-in basis.
The council pays some benefits on behalf of the government and of course it pays wages to its workforce - these could in theory be paid in Colu.
Millar is at pains to make clear that if such a payment system were adopted, Colu would have to take part in an open selection process.
The economist

Duncan McCann is an economist with New Economics Foundation who researches local digital currencies.
He thinks local digital currencies like Colu are a good idea, but he has some serious reservations.
"Local currencies seek to stop money escaping, the 'leaky bucket' argument we call it.
They try to keep it circulating in your own community to do more good.
"Most local currency designs maximise the potential for the money to stick.
There is some irony that this model that Colu is offering at its core extracts money to the mother company, which in this case is Colu [in Israel]."
Most other local currencies in the UK and Europe are run on a not-for-profit basis, he says.
The incentives Colu offers to new joiners can only last so long, he suggests.
"The big danger is that if no profit is being made, or worse they start making a loss, that they will just cancel the app and all the hard work is lost in an instant.
"Then it becomes very hard to start another local currency because there is so much bad feeling."
Transaction complete

Colu has been up and running in Liverpool since December.
It also runs similar currencies in Tel Aviv and Haifa, both under two years old.
It is free of the financial overheads that come with a paper currency and its deep pockets allow it to provide incentives to users, at least for now, and to employ someone to recruit new businesses into the scheme.
Its backers think it can mount a challenge to global capitalism and multinational corporations.
Its fate depends on how many people vote with their digital wallets.
Listen to the radio report by Dougal Shaw on Liverpool's local digital currency on BBC World Hackson Tuesday 19 September
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The spice saffron is known as "red gold"

The spice saffron, as well as being famously expensive, is packed with antioxidants.
It is said to help combat depression and lower blood pressure, to soften your skin and hair and is essential in a broad range of dishes from Swedish buns to paella.
So what's stopping it becoming as fashionable as turmeric and cinnamon?
Is it just its high price?
In my palm I have five tiny strands, like pieces of slightly fraying dark red sewing thread, which smell rather like a fruity tobacco.
Four of them I'm placing into a cup and dousing with warm water; they're destined for the cooking pot.
The fifth I place on my tongue.
I'm told this taste test is essential to check that what I'm using is proper saffron.
After all, if you've spent more than 5 for a gram of anything, you want to be sure it's the real thing.
And after a few seconds I'm gratified that, despite having languished at the back of my spice cupboard for quite some time, the tiny threads are still capable of imparting the heady floral aroma, the honey notes, and the slight astringency I've been promised.
And the strands in the water are leaching an orangey hue, as they should.
Saffron is central to national cuisines from Morocco to the Himalayas, essential to dishes from risotto Milanese to Kashmiri curry.
As well as being a sought-after culinary ingredient the versatile spice is also increasingly being added to medications and cosmetics.
Image copyright Rumi Spice

What is saffron used for?
Cleopatra used it to infuse her bathwater.
Alexander the Great bathed his battle wounds with it and drank saffron tea.
In the 14th Century it was used to combat bubonic plague

It is a key ingredient in dishes from Spanish paella, to Persian rice dishes and Indian curries

It is added to products from coffee to salt, skin creams to shampoos.
Saffron has been used in traditional medicine to treat menstrual problems, depression, asthma and sexual dysfunction

It has been trialled in research for conditions from memory loss to cancer, but the evidence so far is inconclusive

And yet the reputation of the spice, dubbed "red gold", still does not glister quite as brightly as perhaps it should.
Keith Alaniz, an American soldier-turned-entrepreneur, thinks he understands why.
After serving in Afghanistan, he and two other veterans decided to establish a social enterprise based on a crop that could offer locals better returns than illegal opium poppy cultivation.
Image copyright Rumi Spice Image caption Rumi Spice co-founder Keith Alaniz with Afghan crocus farmers

Their company, Rumi Spice, buys saffron crocuses from local growers and employs 380 Afghan women to do the painstaking work of separating the tiny rust-red stigmas in the centre of the crocus from its petals, stamens and the rest of the flower head, prior to being dried and packed for export.
It's those long laborious hours of work that makes saffron so expensive.
Rumi Spice sells its saffron - higher grade than the one from my kitchen cupboard - for $18 (14) per gram.
Mr Alaniz says saffron's high price tag is the reason it has so much promise in war torn Afghanistan.
But it is also in many ways the root of its biggest problem: it makes it extremely tempting for counterfeiters.
"A lot of the reason saffron hasn't taken off is because of the adulteration that you've seen."
He says they're battling against the disappointment some shoppers have felt in the past.
They've spent money on an extravagant product, only to find it didn't have much flavour because it was substandard or even fake saffron.
"What we've seen with chefs and foodies is, once they see what high quality saffron tastes like, they're blown away by the flavour and aroma," says Mr Alaniz.
Image copyright Rumi Spice Image caption The tiny rust-red stigmas need to be painstakingly separated from the petals, stamens and the rest of the flower head

Their saffron is now doing well with specialist buyers and high end restaurants.
And they hope to rebuild its reputation amongst ordinary consumers in the same way.
But the plan will only work if the product consistently delivers on its promise; and despite recent efforts to introduce more rigorous standards, stories continue to circulate of horse hairs, corn silks, and shredded paper, all masquerading as saffron.
Earlier this year there were reports of the synthetic food colourings tartrazine and sunset yellow being used in counterfeit powdered saffron.
Sally Francis, botanist and saffron grower, says only a few weeks ago she saw safflower, a common substitute from the unrelated thistle family, being sold as saffron in a street market in the Netherlands.
And she's met plenty of tourists returning from exotic holidays with what they thought was bargain saffron, only to find out it was bogus.
Even legitimate saffron can vary enormously depending on how it's produced, she says.
"You can have a huge range in saffron quality, with no indication on the packaging as to what you are buying," says Ms Francis.
Often it's simply that careless harvesting has meant some of the flavourless parts of the crocus have found their way into the final mix.
It's still saffron but rather than "packing a punch" like the purest spice, what you're basically getting is "expensive yellow food colouring," she says.
"The difference between a grade I and a grade III that's huge.
You're talking Trabant and Lamborghini," she says.
How to check if saffron is genuine

Check it has strands which are frayed at one end

Look for a deep red hue that colours water orangey-yellow when submerged

Smell it and put it on your tongue - fake saffron has very little aroma or flavour

Real saffron will smell slightly fruity and floral

It should taste sweet and bitter at the same time

Ms Francis produces saffron on a small scale in Norfolk.
The UK is a tiny player in the global saffron market, despite a saffron tradition going back several centuries.
But it is one of many countries from New Zealand to Germany, Greece to India, where producers are recognising the potential for high-grade saffron, with transparent country of origin and quality labelling, to reassure consumers that it is worth the high price tag.
In Iran which supplies around 90% of the world's saffron, there are signs that traceability and certification are becoming priorities.
"We are trying to show the quality of Iranian saffron to other people in the world," says Mehrdad Rowhani, chief executive of a family-owned wholesaler from Mashhad, the city at the heart of Iran's saffron growing region.
After years hampered by American sanctions, which meant a lot of Iranian saffron ended up exported in bulk to be repackaged and sold as "produce of Spain" or sold via backdoor bartering deals, Iranian producers are again able to sell directly to western customers.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Under sanctions Iran struggled to make the most of its saffron potential

This could have more impact than anything else on the standard of saffron available to ordinary shoppers, as Iran's producers embrace the opportunity to emphasise the authenticity, origin and quality of their product.
Mr Rowhani says his firm's exports have already more than doubled since sanctions were lifted.
"We started exporting to the United States and we have good - and big - customers from there," he says.
Now he's focusing on improving every step of the production process from planting, harvesting and drying, to selling in smaller, better designed packaging.
"When they see Persian saffron is of high quality, they want to buy more," he adds.
Image caption Florence Cheptoo began to learn to read when her grandchild brought home a library book

What's it like to read your first words at the age of 60?
What difference does it make after a lifetime of getting by without reading?
If you think about how much written information we consume every hour - going through emails at work or flicking through messages on mobiles phone - it's hard to imagine being without these ways of communicating.
But Florence Cheptoo, who lives in an isolated rural village near Chesongoch, in Kenya, has turned her first page as a 60-year-old.
Her path to reading began when her granddaughter brought home books from primary school.
The school had been given a small lending library of books, through the Book Aid International charity that distributes books donated by UK publishers.
But many of the parents and grandparents of the schoolchildren were themselves unable to read, and teachers began literacy lessons for adults.
Florence, forwarding her answers to the BBC through a local librarian, said she now felt "part of those who are in the modern world".
Image caption Adult literacy classes began after the library was opened

When she had been younger, there had been no support for her to become literate, she said.
Her parents had wanted her to marry and to get a dowry and stay tending livestock - and there had never been a chance to learn.
"My parents did not value the need for education," she said.
It meant that she couldn't sign her name or read any legal documents or check if she was being cheated over payments.
Now, Florence has begun reading and lists the practical differences it has made in her life.
She can read the information on medicine she is prescribed, she can look at newspapers and find out about the outside world and take charge of her own personal records.
Image caption Florence says that learning to read has brought more control over her life, as well as pleasure

There are things she said she particularly enjoyed: reading storybooks for the first time, getting letters from her family and being able to read the Bible for herself.
The world of maps has been opened up.
"I like knowing where other parts of the country are located," she said.
And she has been getting books on agriculture "so that I can learn how to farm".
When her grandchildren get school reports, she can see how they are progressing.
It had given her a new confidence, she said, letting her feel more knowledgeable and able to have an opinion alongside people, either literate or illiterate.
"I am able to identify what is good and bad in society."
Florence wasn't the oldest member of this adult literacy class.
There was also a man in his 80s.
His eyesight wasn't very good and he didn't really think he would become much of a reader - but he told the teachers that he wanted to be seen regularly at the class to send a message to the rest of the village that this was important.
More from Global education

Ideas for the Global education series?
Get in touch.
The Book Aid International charity distributes a million free books a year, new from publishers, with further grants to buy books locally and to train librarians and teaching staff.
Most of the books go to projects in Africa, where they are shared in libraries.
Image caption The village is in a remote part of Kenya

Emma Taylor, from Book Aid International, has visited the scheme in Kenya where Florence is learning and says there is a great demand for learning there - which the library helps to serve.
"It's an incredibly powerful experience," she said, seeing people reading for the first time.
"It opens the door to so many different things that we take so much for granted."
Setting up libraries in deprived communities had a particular value, she said.
In the slums of Nairobi, she said, libraries had become a place of safety for young people, where they could feel protected, and then could begin exploring the books around them and opening up their minds to ideas.
"There's something really special about a library.
It's not just putting books in a room," she said.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Northern Rock was a key sponsor for Newcastle United

In the summer of 2007, Newcastle had much to look forward to.
The Toon - Newcastle United - had a new owner, the billionaire retail tycoon Mike Ashley, and much was expected under the management of Sam Allardyce.
The performance of the team's shirt sponsor, Northern Rock, was a source of pride; after decades of hard times following the end of shipbuilding and mining, the North East had a new economic champion, one that was giving the financial services giants of the South a real run for their money.
The former building society had demutualised and scaled the heights of the FTSE 100, the elite club of Britain's biggest quoted companies, and in the process had become the fourth biggest bank in the UK by share of lending.
The chairman, Matt Ridley, summed it up in the annual report, lauding "another excellent year" and said "our strategy of using growth, cost efficiency and credit quality to reward both shareholders and customers continues to run well."
Toxic fuel

A few months later, Northern Rock's empire was in ruins.
The fuel it had used to grow so quickly turned out to be toxic.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Northern Rock had borrowed heavily on the international money markets

Rather than using customer deposits as the source of funds to lend out to homeowners, it borrowed in the international money markets.
When the sub-prime crisis hit America, those markets took fright, and stopped lending to anything that looked like it might be over-exposed to the housing market.
Northern Rock was an obvious first casualty.
The BBC broke the news that it needed Bank of England support 10 years ago tomorrow, and the day after there were queues outside branches, the first run on a British bank in 150 years.
After limping on for a few more months, Northern Rock was nationalised in February 2008.
Regional shock

Councillor Nick Forbes, leader of Newcastle City Council, remembers walking out of the civic offices to nearby Northumberland Street where Northern Rock had its main city centre branch.
"There was a queue outside going right down the street.
That really was the first sign that something was wrong.
No-one really saw it coming."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Customers queued for hours to take out their savings

Northern Rock's demise - it was split into "bad" and "good" sets of assets and operations, with Virgin Money buying the latter - was a shock to the region's economy, as was the banking crisis that followed.
"We were early into recession and late out," said Mr Forbes.
"It's only now really that we have recaptured that lost ground."
About 2,500 jobs were lost.
There was another heavy blow, little understood outside the North East - the loss of the Northern Rock Foundation, a charitable trust which received 5% of the bank's profits each year.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Many who lost their savings want the government to change its mind on compensation

It had given 235m to good causes before the bank was nationalised and broken up.
Mr Forbes is now pressing the Treasury to give back some of the profits it expects to make from its intervention on Northern Rock to make up for the loss of the foundation.
Northern Rock shareholders are also making a claim on the potential profits, which independent experts think could eventually reach about 8bn.
An association of small shareholders, many of whom lost their life savings when the bank was nationalised, has asked the chancellor to think again on compensation, which has been denied before.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Any surplus from Northern Rock's privatisation should go to taxpayers, says the Treasury

Jon Wood, a fund manager who was a big Northern Rock shareholder and has been severely critical of the Bank of England's action, is also thought be to considering fresh legal action.
The Treasury has said that any surplus from the Northern Rock nationalisation should compensate taxpayers for the amounts risked in the rescue.
Lessons learned

A decade on, important strands of "the run on the Rock" story are only now being uncovered.
In an interview with the BBC Gary Hoffman, who was parachuted in as chief executive after privatisation, said he found an organisation with an unquestioning - and unhappy - culture.
"The management had completely lost touch with the coal face, and did not know what was happening.
There was an attitude that you did not question what was going on, which was a tragedy because there were extremely good people at the bank."
Hoffman reveals that the Treasury had considered all options for the future of the bank when he was in charge - not just a sale to a banking rival, but also a refloating of the bank as an independent business, and its complete run-down and closure.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The collapse was the first sign in Britain of the coming global financial crisis

Other senior banking sources have told the BBC that the last option - closure - was the favourite right up until Christmas Eve 2008, when the bank's leadership was able to convince the Treasury it could be sold as a going concern.
Mr Hoffman says that the UK's banking sector is now safer than in the run-up to the crisis, with greater capital reserves at the big institutions.
Others disagree, however, saying the increases have been largely illusory.
Kevin Dowd, professor of finance and economics at the University of Durham, says changes in bank regulations have not greatly improved banks' resilience.
"The Bank of England looks at the book value of bank assets - the value that they themselves put on their assets.
But if you look at the stock market, investors don't believe it because most of our big banks have stock market values less than their book values."
Image caption Senobar Johnsen says it's "visibly noticeable" that Swedes prefer cards to cash these days

Sweden is the most cashless society on the planet, with barely 1% of the value of all payments made using coins or notes last year.
So how did the Nordic nation get so far ahead of the rest of us?
Warm cinnamon buns are stacked next to mounds of freshly-baked sourdough bread at a neighbourhood coffee shop in Kungsholmen, just west of Stockholm city centre.
Amongst the other typically Scandinavian touches - minimalist white tiles and exposed filament light bulbs - is another increasingly common sight in the Swedish capital: a "We don't accept cash" sign.
"We wanted to minimise the risk of robberies and it's quicker with the customers when they pay by card," says Victoria Nilsson, who manages two of the bakery chain's 16 stores across the city.
"It's been mainly positive reactions.
We love to use our cards here in Stockholm."
Across the country, cash is now used in less than 20% of transactions in stores - half the number five years ago, according to the Riksbank, Sweden's central bank.
Coins and banknotes have been banned on buses for several years after unions raised concerns over drivers' safety.
Even tourist attractions have started to gamble on taking plastic-only payments, including Stockholm's Pop House Hotel and The Abba Museum.
Image caption Bjorn Ulvaeus (left) back in his Abba heyday.
Now he's a keen supporter of a cashless Sweden.
The iconic band's Bjorn Ulvaeus is, in fact, one of the nation's most vocal supporters of Sweden's cash-free trend, after his son lost cash in an apartment burglary.
Smaller retailers are jumping on the bandwagon, too, making use of home-grown technologies such as iZettle, the Swedish start-up behind Europe's first mobile credit card reader.
Such portable technologies have enabled market traders - and even homeless people promoting charity magazines - to take card payments easily.
"I took my kids to the funfair and there was a guy selling balloons and he had a card machine with him," remarks Senobar Johnsen, one of the Swedish customers back at the bakery.
Currently living in Portsmouth in southern England, she's visiting Sweden for the first time in a year and says it's "visibly noticeable" that people are paying more with cards.
"It's not like the UK where there's often a minimum spend when you go to a kiosk or you're in the middle of nowhere.
I think it's great".
Swish, a smartphone payment system, is another popular Swedish innovation used by more than half the country's 10 million strong population.
Image caption Signs like this are becoming increasingly common in Sweden

Backed by the major banks, it allows customers to send money securely to anyone else with the app, just by using their mobile number.
A staple at flea markets and school fetes, it's also a popular way to transfer money instantly between friends: Swedes can no longer get away with delaying their share of a restaurant bill using the excuse that they're short on cash.
"In general, consumers are very interested in new technologies, so we're quite early to adopt [them]," explains Niklas Arvidsson, a professor at Stockholm's Royal Institute of Technology.
This is partly down to infrastructure (Sweden is among the most connected countries in the EU); a relatively small population that is an ideal test-bed for innovations; and the country's historically low corruption levels, he argues.
"Swedes tend to trust banks, we trust institutions... people are not afraid of the sort-of 'Big Brother' issues or fraud connected to electronic payment."
Somewhat paradoxically, Sweden's decision to update its coins and banknotes, a move announced by the Riksbank in 2010 and fully implemented this year, actually boosted cashless transactions, explains Prof Arvidsson.
"You would have thought that a new kind of cash would have created an interest, but the reaction seems to have been the opposite," he says.
"Some retailers thought it's easier not to accept these new forms of cash because there's learning to be done, maybe investment in cash registration machines and so-on."
There has also been a "ripple effect", he says, with more shops signing up to the cashless idea as it becomes increasingly socially acceptable.
Image caption Former Interpol president Bjorn Eriksson is worried about a cashless future

Riksbank figures reveal that the average value of Swedish krona in circulation fell from around 106 billion (10bn) in 2009 to 65 billion (6bn) in 2016.
Barely 1% of the value of all payments were made using coins or notes last year, compared to around 7% across the EU and in the US.
Prof Arvidsson predicts that the use of cash will most likely be reduced to "a very marginal payment form" by 2020.
Retailers seem to agree.
A survey - not yet published - of almost 800 small retailers carried out by his research team found that two thirds of respondents said they anticipated phasing out cash payments completely by 2030.
But the trend is not to everyone's liking, as Bjorn Eriksson, formerly national police commissioner and president of Interpol, explains from the suburb of Alvik.
Here, his local coffee shop still accepts old-fashioned money, but several of the banks no longer offer cash deposits or over-the-counter withdrawals.
"I like cards.
I'm just angry because about a million people can't cope with cards: the elderly, former convicts, tourists, immigrants.
The banks don't care because [these groups] are not profitable," he argues.
The 71-year-old is the face of a national movement called Kontantupproret (Cash Rebellion), which is also concerned about identity theft, rising consumer debt and cyber-attacks.
"This system could easily be disturbed or manipulated.
Why invade us when it's so easy?
Just cut off the payment system and we're completely helpless," says Mr Eriksson.
More Technology of Business

Image copyright Getty Images

His arguments haven't escaped the notice of politicians in Sweden, where debates about security are increasingly making their way onto the agenda in the wake of a government agency data leak that almost brought down the ruling coalition in July.
Meanwhile, the backdrop of an increasingly divided electorate suggests that rural and elderly voters could prove crucial in the Nordic country's next general election, scheduled for September 2018.
Back at Stockholm's Royal Institute of Technology, Prof Arvidsson points out that while most Swedes have embraced the nation's cash-free innovations, two thirds don't want to get rid of notes and coins completely.
"There's a very strong emotional connection to cash among Swedes, even though they do not use it," he says.
Sweden may leading the global trend towards a cashless future, but its tech-savvy population also appears to be guided by another, more traditional Swedish trait: caution.
Image copyright Getty Images

Almost 750 years ago, a young Venetian merchant named Marco Polo wrote a remarkable book chronicling his travels in China.
The Book of the Marvels of the World was full of strange foreign customs that Marco claimed to have seen.
But there was one that was so extraordinary, Marco Polo could barely contain himself: "Tell it how I might," he wrote, "you never would be satisfied that I was keeping within truth and reason."
What had excited Marco so much?
He was one of the first Europeans to witness an invention that remains at the foundation of the modern economy: paper money.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy highlights the inventions, ideas and innovations which have helped create the economic world in which we live.
It is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
Of course, the paper itself isn't the point.
Modern paper money isn't made of paper - it's made of cotton fibres or plastic.
And the Chinese money that so fascinated Marco Polo wasn't quite paper either.
It was made from a black sheet derived from the bark of mulberry trees, signed by multiple officials and, with a seal smothered in bright red vermilion, authenticated by the Chinese emperor Kublai Khan himself.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Kublai Khan announced that officially stamped mulberry bark was money - and lo, it was

The chapter of Marco Polo's book was titled, somewhat breathlessly: "How the great Khan Causes the Bark of Trees, Made into Something Like Paper, to Pass for Money All over His Country".
The point is, that whatever these notes were made of, their value didn't come from the preciousness of the substance, as with a gold or silver coin.
Instead, the value was created purely by the authority of the government.
'Genius' system

Paper money is sometimes called fiat money - the Latin word "fiat" means "let it be done".
The Great Khan announces that officially stamped mulberry bark is money - and lo, let it be done.
Money it is.
The genius of this system amazed Marco Polo, who explained that the paper money circulated as though it were gold or silver itself.
Where was all the gold that wasn't circulating?
Well, the emperor kept a tight hold of that.
The Mulberry money itself wasn't new when Marco Polo heard about it.
It had emerged nearly three centuries earlier, around the year 1000 in Sichuan, China.
Sichuan was a frontier province, bordered by foreign and sometimes hostile states.
China's rulers didn't want valuable gold and silver currency to leak into foreign lands, and so they imposed a bizarre rule.
Sichuan had to use coins made of iron.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption These Chinese coins dating back to the Song Dynasty (960-1279) were found in 2005

Iron coins aren't terribly practical.
If you traded in a handful of silver coins - 50g worth - you'd be given your own body weight in iron coins.
Even something simple like salt was worth more, gram for gram, than iron - so if you went to the market for groceries, your sackful of coins on the way there would weigh more than the bag of goods that you brought back.
Sichuan merchants had a problem, as William Goetzmann explains in his book Money Changes Everything.
It was illegal to use gold and silver coins, and impractical to use iron coins.
It's no surprise that they began to experiment with an alternative.
That alternative was called "jiaozi", or "exchange bills".
Instead of carrying around a wagonload of iron coins, a well-known and trusted merchant would write an IOU, and promise to pay his bill later when it was more convenient for everyone.
That was a simple enough idea.
But then there was a twist, a kind of economic magic.
These "jiaozi", or IOUs, started to trade freely.
More from Tim Harford:

The warrior monks who invented banking

What makes gambling wrong but insurance right?
How the invention of paper changed the world

What tally sticks tell us about how money works

Suppose I supply some goods to the eminently reputable Mr Zhang, and he gives me an IOU.
When I go to your shop later, rather than paying you with iron coins - who does that?
- I could write you an IOU.
Primitive paper money

But it might be simpler - and indeed you might prefer it - if instead I give you Mr Zhang's IOU.
After all, we both know he's good for the money.
Now you, and I, and Mr Zhang, have together created a kind of primitive paper money - it's a promise to repay that has a marketable value of its own - and can be passed around from person to person without being redeemed.
This is very good news for Mr Zhang, because as long as people keep finding it convenient simply to pass on his IOU as a way of paying for things, Mr Zhang never actually has to stump up the iron coins.
Effectively, he enjoys an interest-free loan for as long as his IOU continues to circulate.
Better still, it's a loan that he may never be asked to repay.
Image copyright British Library Board Or.12380/2286/22 Image caption A fragment of one of the earliest surviving banknotes, which was printed in the early 1260s

No wonder the Chinese authorities started to think these benefits ought to accrue to them, rather than to the likes of Mr Zhang.
At first they regulated the issuance of jiaozi, but then outlawed private jiaozi and took over the whole business themselves.
Modern step

The official jiaozi currency was a huge hit, circulating across regions and even internationally.
In fact, the jiaozi even traded at a premium, because they were so much easier to carry around than metal coins.
Initially, the government-issued jiaozi could be redeemed for coins on demand, exactly as the private jiaozi had been.
This was logical: it treated the paper notes as a placeholder for something of real value.
But the government soon moved stealthily to a fiat system, maintaining the principle but abandoning the practice of redeeming jiaozi for metal.
Bring an old jiaozi in to the government treasury to be redeemed, and you would receive a crisp new jiaozi.
That was a very modern step.
The money we use today all over the world is created by central banks and it's backed by nothing in particular except the promises to replace old notes with fresh ones.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The oldest known British bank note, issued by the Bank of England in 1699

We've moved from a situation where Mr Zhang's IOU circulates without ever being redeemed, to the mind-bending situation where the government's IOUs circulate despite never being redeemed.
Temptation

For governments, fiat money represents a temptation: a government with bills to pay can simply print more money.
And when more money chases the same amount of goods and services, prices tend to go up.
The temptation quickly proved too great to resist.
The Song dynasty issued too many jiaozi.
Counterfeiting was also a problem.
Within a few decades of its invention in the early 11th century, jiaozi was devalued and discredited, trading at just 10% of its face value.
Other countries have since suffered much worse.
Weimar Germany and Zimbabwe are famous examples of economies collapsing into chaos as excessive money-printing rendered prices meaningless.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Zimbabwe has seen extraordinarily high inflation

The abysmal world record for hyperinflation is held by Hungary in 1946, where prices trebled during the course of every day.
Walk into a Budapest cafe back then, and it was better to pay for your coffee when you arrived, not when you left.
The gold standard

These rare but terrifying episodes have convinced some economic radicals that fiat money can never be stable.
They yearn for a return to the days of the gold standard, when paper money could always be redeemed for a little piece of the precious metal held inside Fort Knox.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Gold has been used as currency for thousands of years

But mainstream economists generally now believe that pegging the money supply to gold is a terrible idea.
Most regard low and predictable inflation as no problem at all - perhaps even a useful lubricant to economic activity.
And while we may not always be able to trust central bankers to print just the right amount of new money, it probably makes more sense than trusting miners to dig up just the right amount of new gold.
The ability to fire up the printing presses is especially useful in crisis situations.
After the 2007 financial crisis, the US Federal Reserve pumped trillions of dollars into the economy, without creating inflation.
In fact, the printing presses were metaphorical: those trillions were simply created by key-strokes on computers in the global banking system.
As a wide-eyed Marco Polo might have put it: "The great Central Bank Causes the Digits on a Computer Screen, Made into Something Like Spreadsheets, to Pass for Money".
Technology has changed, but what passes for money continues to astonish.
Tim Harford writes the Financial Times's Undercover Economist column.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
IT WAS 2012I was number 37, says Ashwini, referring to the badge that was pinned on her shirt pocket.
Her task was to go onto the stage and introduce herself to around 70 eligible bachelors and their parents.
Families then conferred and, provided caste and religious background proved no obstacle, would approach the events moderator asking to meet number 37.
At midday girls would wait for prospects to swing by, again with parents on either side.
A brief exchange might establish the potential brides cooking skills or her intention to work after marriage.
If the two sides hit it off, they would exchange copies of their horoscopes.
Nearly 50 men lined up to meet Ashwini that day, speed-dating style.
No one made the cut.
She later married a colleague.
Such gatherings form an important part of the wedding industry, worth around $50bn a year, in a country where arranged marriages continue to be the norm.
India has 440m millennialsroughly, the generation born between 1980 and 1996and a further 390m youngsters have been born since 2000, so there are plenty of anguished parents for marriage facilitators to pitch to.
KPMG, a consultancy, estimates that out of 107m single men and women, 63m are active seekers.
For now, only a tenth surf the internet to find a spouse.
But the number who do is about to explode, argue executives in the marriage-portal business (India has 2,600 such sites).
After Facebook [took off], people are more open about their lives than ever before, which has had a great knock-on effect, says Gourav Rakshit of Shaadi.com, one of Indias oldest matrimonial sites.
Take Matrimony.com, the countrys biggest online matchmaker, which raised $78m in its initial public offering on September 13th.
Its shares began trading this week.
It runs 300-odd websites in 15 languages, catering to different castes and religions.
It has sites for divorcees, the disabled, the affluent (Elite Matrimony) and for those with unfavourable astrological charts, which make it difficult to find a match.
All online firms run a freemium model: upload your profile at no charge and let an algorithm match horoscope details with potential partners filtered by age, caste, education, income and sometimes (alas) complexion.
Or you can pay for features like instant chat or a colourful border around your profile to ensure the algorithm returns you as a top search result.
Such a long list of options means that finding a match on the web can be time-consuming and tedious.
Its like looking for a needle in a haystack, says one suitor.
Predictably, many also complain that online profiles often do not reflect reality.
Outright fakes remain a scourge.
This month a man was arrested in Delhi for extorting over 5m rupees ($77,700) from 15 women by luring them on matrimonial websites.
And no amount of artificial intelligence can yet identify what will make two youngsters click.
Spouseup, a south Indian startup, is undaunted.
It trawls social media to determine a candidates personality and recommends matches by calculating a compatibility score.
Nine-tenths of its 50,000 users are non-resident Indians who usually fly to India for a month or so, scout for partners, settle on one, get hitched and fly back together.
For these time-starved travellers, the machine-led scouring provides an insight that would come from five coffee dates, says Karthik Iyer, the firms founder.
Banihal, which is based in Silicon Valley, relies on a long psychometric questionnaire of around 100 questions to match like-minded partners.
Real-world complements to online efforts can help secure a match.
Some services, such as IITIIMShaadi.com, aimed at people graduating from prestigious universities, also act as conventional wedding-brokers, by meeting prospects on their clients behalf.
The job is no different from that of a headhunter, says Taksh Gupta, its founder.
He charges anywhere between 50,000 and 200,000 rupees for the service.
His most recent catch, after a search lasting over two years, was a husband for a 45-year-old woman from a prestigious university who would settle for no less than an Ivy League groom.
Matrimony.com, too, has over 400 relationship managers and 140 physical outlets.
The opportunity is huge, enthuses Murugavel Janakiraman, boss of Matrimony.com.
Around four-fifths of new customers now come via smartphones, lured by instant alerts about new potential matches and services that match up people in the same town.
But the spread of smartphones also brings competition.
Casual-dating apps are spreading fast.
Tinder, on which decisions about eligibility rarely benefit from parental advice, now counts India as Asias largest, fastest-growing market.
EIGHT months into Donald Trumps presidency, the rules-based system of global trade remains intact.
Threats to impose broad tariffs have come to nothing.
Some ominous investigations into whether imports into America are a national-security threat are on hold.
Mr Trump looks less a hard man than a boy crying wolf.
All the same, supporters of the World Trade Organisation (WTO), the guardian of that rules-based system, are worried.
Other dangers are lurking.
There is more than one way to undermine an institution.
The WTO is meant to be a forum for reaching deals and resolving disputes.
But all 164 members must agree to new rules, and agreement has largely been elusive.
So if members do not like todays rules, as interpreted by judges, they have little prospect of negotiating better ones.
That puts pressure on the WTOs judicial function, the bit that has been working fairly well.
Trouble is brewing at the WTOs court of appeals.
It is meant to have seven serving judges, but has only five and by the end of the year will have just four.
The Americans refuse to start the process of filling the spots, citing systemic concerns.
What seemed an arcane procedural row has become what some call a crisis.
This tension comes at a bad time.
Over recent years the number of disputes has risen both in number (see chart) and complexity.
The court is already dealing with a backlog of cases, which are supposed to take two months.
One appeal from the EU, relating to Airbus, an aircraft manufacturer, is almost a year old.
By the end of 2019 the terms of three more judges will expire, leaving only one.
Three are needed to rule on any individual case.
If the gaps are not filled, the system risks collapse.
Notionally, the Americans object to two procedural irregularities, including the way the most recently departed judges left.
But according to Brendan McGivern, a lawyer in Geneva, neither is a show-stopping problem.
And on September 18th Robert Lighthizer, Americas usually tight-lipped trade representative, outlined a bigger agenda.
To a Washington room packed with foreign-policy wonks, he complained that decisions from WTO judges had diminished what America had bargained for and imposed obligations it had not agreed to when it joined the WTO.
These are long-standing and uniquely American concerns.
Panels at the WTO have repeatedly ruled that the way it calculates defensive duties on imports breaks the rules.
Mr Lighthizer sees this as undermining Americas ability to protect itself from unfair trade.
Many in Washington accuse the WTOs lawyers of overstepping their remit, filling in the gaps where the original rules are silent.
So the American administration seems in effect to be using the judicial appointments to hold the WTO hostage.
Oddly, though, it has been vague about what it wants.
Mr Lighthizers past offers clues.
According to the Wall Street Journal , when he advised Bob Dole, a presidential candidate in 1996, he recommended that a panel of American judges should review any findings against America, which would threaten to quit the WTO after three duds.
This week Mr Lighthizer spoke fondly of the system that preceded the WTO, under which members could block panel rulings.
Bullying the appellate body into ruling in favour of America would undermine its usefulness.
If members no longer think that they will get a fair hearing, they are more likely to take matters into their own hands.
Mr McGivern worries that an American fix to the perceived problem of judicial overreach could undermine the rules-based system, by tampering with the independence of the appellate body.
Some signs suggest that Mr Trumps administration is not planning to ditch the WTO entirely.
It is pursuing two disputes initiated by Barack Obama.
And Mr Lighthizer has said that if he uncovers a breach of Chinas commitments under WTO rules, he will file a dispute.
But he expressed doubt about the WTOs ability either to deal with Chinese mercantilism or to reach any agreements at its next ministerial meeting in December.
Mr Trumps tough-cop trade policy appears to be to threaten tariffs unless he gets his way.
Mr Lighthizers is subtler but perhaps more menacing.
By combining indifference with a ploy to starve the WTO of judges, he is gambling that the WTO needs America more than America needs it.
In both cases the risks are the same: that the rule book will become irrelevant.
Correction (September 22nd): A previous version of this article misstated the number of judges in the WTOs court of appeals due to retire in 2019.
This has been corrected online.
A year earlier than expected, Norways sovereign-wealth fund, the worlds largest, surpassed $1trn in assets on September 19th.
It had gained over $100bn in the past year, thanks in large measure to the global stockmarket boom in 2017: around two-thirds of its assets are held as equities (over 1% of shares globally).
It helps that Norwegians continue to earn fat revenues from pumping North Sea oil and gas, which go to the fund to be invested abroad.
The fund is so big it is becoming a tool for 5m-odd Norwegians to shape values abroad.
It is an increasingly activist shareholder, speaking out on executive pay, ethical behaviour, companies use of water, child labour and more.
Both its size and influence are likely to keep on growing.
THREE-QUARTERS of Americans admit that they search the web, send e-mails and check their social-media accounts in the bathroom.
That is not the only connection between tech and plumbing.
The water and sewage industry offers clues to the vexed question of how to regulate the Silicon Valley platform firms, such as Alphabet, Amazon and Facebook.
The implications are mildly terrifying for the companies, so any tech tycoons reading this column might want to secure a spare pair of trousers.
In America and in Europe a consensus is emerging that big tech firms must be tamed.
Their dominance of services such as search and social media gives them huge economic and political clout.
The $3trn total market value of Americas five biggest tech firms (Apple and Microsoft are the other two) suggests that investors believe they are among the most powerful firms in history, up there with the East India Company and Standard Oil.
Trustbusters in need of instant gratification want to break up the companies, but this might make their services less useful (imagine having ten social-media accounts), and network effects might mean that one of the tiddlers would grow dominant again.
Others want tech firms to license their patents for nothing, as AT&T was required to do in 1956.
This might create startups tomorrow, but will not stop firms exploiting monopolies today.
An alternative is to regulate these companies like utilitiesmonopolies with high market shares that provide an essential service from which it is expensive for consumers to switch.
Here, the water industry is relevant, particularly the concept of a regulated asset base (RAB).
It emerged in the 1990s when Britain was privatising its water firms, borrowing elements from American regulation.
It is an acronym that few in Silicon Valley are aware of.
But from these obscure origins RAB frameworks are now common in Europe and Latin America, used to regulate at least $400bn-worth of power, airport, water and telecoms assets.
The idea is that the monopolists profits should not exceed the level that a competitive market would allow.
That means estimating the cost to an imaginary new entrant of replicating the incumbents assets (this is the RAB) and calculating the profits the newcomer would make if its returns matched its cost of capital.
The actual monopolys earnings should not exceed this amount.
Safeguards are added to ensure the utility is run efficiently, keeping costs low.
Regulators review the framework every few years.
How might utility-style regulation work for Silicon Valley firms?
Consider a thought experiment with Facebook.
Its 1.3bn users pay nothing, but give it their data and control over the adverts they see.
Facebook then sells advertisers targeted access to its users, pulling in $27bn last year.
Imagine that the service were unbundled, giving users control.
All would own their data and could choose whether to sell them to advertisers.
They would also have to pay Facebook a fee to compensate it for the cost of creating and operating the network.
The big question is how much compensationprofitsFacebook and other firms would deserve if they were treated as utilities.
It is possible to get a rough idea.
Assume a cost of capital of 12%a high figure to reflect the risk inherent in tech firms models.
Estimating their RABs is harder.
They have some physical assets such as data centres, but unlike utilities their main resources are not pylons, pipes and property, but software and ideas that they create or acquire by buying rivals.
Only some of these intangibles appear on their balance-sheets; the vast sums spent on research and development (R&D) do not.
But you can reconfigure their balance-sheets as if all their R&D in the past had been recognised as an asset with a 20-year life.
Alphabet and Facebook would have a combined RAB of $160bn.
If their returns were capped at 12%, operating profits would fall by 65% and 81% respectively.
If their services were unbundled, users would benefit.
Using figures from 2016, the average Facebook user would pay $15 a year to the firm for its return on its RAB, but they would pocket $23 from selling advertisers their data and the right to be advertised to.
A Google user would pay $37 a year to Google, but collect $45 from advertisers.
Those are fairly small sums, but richer users with particularly valuable data could make much more.
Bog standard

Regulating tech like water would cause an outcry among investors and in Silicon Valley.
Yet some of the objections do not stack up.
Essential investment would still happena guaranteed 12% return is a handsome reward.
The firms could invest in new technologies that would remain outside the regulated utility.
It would be possible to work out which assets sit abroad and exclude them from the RAB, or to reach arrangements with foreign regulators.
This approach would have shortcomings, though.
Tech moves at the speed of light compared with conventional utilities.
It was only five years ago that investors worried that Facebook would struggle with the shift to mobile phones.
Regulators would be clumsy at coping with rapid change.
And a RAB methodology would not resolve the incendiary issue of whether tech platforms should be responsible for what they publish.
Despite such problems, tech bosses should view regulation as utilities as a long-term risk.
They have two defences.
First, to bundle their services so tightly that it is impossible for outsiders to isolate the products that are monopolies and work out their profits and assets.
Amazon is a master here.
It is unclear how much it makes or has invested in e-commerce (where it is dominant), videos (where it is a challenger), or food (where it is a new entrant).
The second defence is to lobby Washington.
The lesson from Americas veteran oligopolistsairline, telecoms and health-care companiesis that you can manipulate and dance around the regulatory system to ensure high profits.
For tech firms, financial obfuscation and cronyism are the most effective ways to ensure their monopoly profits do not go down the drain.
IN RECENT days China set the record for the worlds fastest long-distance bullet train, which hurtled between Beijing and Shanghai at 350kph (217mph).
This was a triumph of industrial policy as much as of engineering.
Chinas first high-speed trains started rolling only a decade ago; today the country has 20,000km of high-speed track, more than the rest of the world combined.
China could not have built this without a strong government.
The state provided funds for research, land for tracks, aid for loss-making railways, subsidies for equipment-makers and, most controversially, incentives for foreign companies to share commercial secrets.
High-speed rail is a prime example of the Chinese governments prowess at identifying priority industries and deploying money and policy tools to nurture them.
It inspires awe of what it can accomplish and fear that other countries stand little chance against such a formidable competitor.
Yet there have also been big industrial-policy misses, notably the failure to develop strong car manufacturers and semiconductor-makers.
China is rolling out a new generation of industrial policies, directed at a range of advanced sectors, raising worries that it will dominate everything from robotics to artificial intelligence.
That result is far from preordained.
Industrial policy is a touchy topic.
In continental Europe and, especially, Asia, many have faith in the governments ability to steer companies into industries they might otherwise shun.
In America and Britain, faith tends to be supplanted by deep doubts.
Governments, after all, have a lousy record in picking winners in fast-evolving markets.
Yet most countries try to support some industries, usually through a mixture of infrastructure, tax breaks and research funding.
What differs is the stress they lay on such measures.
China is unique in the breadth and heft of its industrial policy.
For years the government concentrated on modernising what it classified as nine traditional industries such as shipbuilding, steelmaking and petrochemical production.
In 2010 seven new strategic industries, from alternative energy to biotechnology, also became targets.
And two years ago it announced its Made in China 2025 scheme, specifying ten sectors, including aerospace, new materials and agricultural equipment, which are now at the heart of its planning.
The various plans overlap; cars, for example, have appeared in every iteration.
The result is a wide-ranging approach in which the government tries to shape outcomes in important parts of the economy, new and old.
The Made in China plan, its latest industrial-policy craze, is derived in part from Germanys Industry 4.0 model, which focuses on creating a helpful environment through training and policy support but leaves business decisions to companies.
Chinas version is much more hands-on.
By the start of this year, officials had established 1,013 state-guided funds, endowed with 5.3trn yuan ($807bn), much of it for Made in China industries.
In August the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology unveiled a manufacturing-subsidy programme, spread across as many as 62 separate initiatives.
Most contentiously, the government has laid out local-content targets for the various Made in China sectors (see chart).
One plan features hundreds of market-share targets, both at home and abroad.
Clearly, this is no mere domestic exercise, the EU Chamber of Commerce in China warned in a report this year.
The targets also illustrate one of the facets of Chinese industrial policy that has so angered foreign companies and governments: the disguising of state support.
The World Trade Organisation (WTO) strictly limits local-content rules.
But Chinas market-share targets are primarily contained in semi-official documents, such as a blueprint published by the Chinese Academy of Engineering.
So the government can claim that these are simply industry reports, not official targets.
But in the Chinese system the line between government-backed industry estimates and official guidelines is easily blurred.
Similarly, foreigners have long complained that China hides much of its illegal state aid.
Since 2011 America has formally requested information about more than 400 unreported Chinese subsidies.
China learned how to game the system, says Tim Stratford, a former American trade official responsible for dealings with China.
The WTO is not designed to deal effectively with a huge economy that has, as the core of its development strategy, industrial policies across a wide range of sectors.
Frustrations at the WTOs inadequacy in restraining China have led the American government to look at other mechanisms (see article ).
Foreign competitors see China as a well-oiled machine and worry that they will lose business not just in China but around the world.
Export powerhouses such as South Korea and Germany feel most exposed (see chart).
But in fact the Chinese governments record in promoting specific industries is patchy.
Since the 1970s it has tried to develop semiconductors.
But of the $145bn-worth of microchips China consumed in 2015, only a tenth were truly domestic; foreign technology remains superior.
The car industry, too, has disappointed.
To manufacture in China, foreign firms must take local partners.
The government hoped this would lead to knowledge transfers.
Instead, local firms, insulated from head-on foreign competition, have milked the joint ventures for profits and innovated little.
Moreover, in their zeal, local governments can go overboard.
Some worry that Made in China sectors will end up facing gluts, like old industries where China is now cutting overcapacity, such as steel and coal.
The Mercator Institute of China Studies, a Berlin-based research group, counted that, by late 2016, nearly 40 local governments had opened or planned robotics parks.
The central government estimates that China will need nearly 150bn yuan-worth of robots over the next few years.
According to the Mercator tally, local targets add up to roughly five times as much.
Yet when four factorsforeign technology, domestic abilities, market demand and government moneycome together, Chinese industrial policy can be ruthlessly effective.
The boom in high-speed rail began in 2004 when the government offered lucrative contracts to foreign engineering companies such as Germanys Siemens and Japans Kawasaki so long as they shared their know-how.
Some resisted at first, but eventually the lure of Chinas vast market won them over, especially when they saw competitors getting a slice of it.
With their prodigious engineering skills, born from years of trying to develop high-speed rail themselves, Chinese companies soon absorbed the technology.
After a decade of laying tracks on an unprecedented scale, they have improved on it.
That success cannot be replicated in all ten of the Made in China sectors, not least because foreign companies are more guarded about sharing their secrets.
But it would be rash to bet against Chinas succeeding in at least a few of them.
ASK young American parents about Toys R Us and they are likely to be able to sing a jingle from their childhood: I dont wanna grow up, cause maybe if I did, I couldnt be a Toys R Us kid.
For children of the 1980s, Toys R Us was a mecca at the strip mall, an awe-inspiring array of dolls, trucks, board games, bikes, art supplies and much more.
Many of them noticed when on September 18th, the chain filed for bankruptcy.
Dave Brandon, the companys chief executive, emphasised that shops would carry on operating as usual and claimed that Toys R Us was at the start of a new, brighter era.
These are the right steps to ensure that the iconic Toys R Us and Babies R Us brands live on for many generations, he declared.
A Chapter 11 bankruptcy, many analysts agree, is a sensible way to deal with the chains $5bn of long-term debt.
So Toys R Us is not dead.
But its future is hardly certain.
The companys tale in many ways typifies the ailments of American bricks-and-mortar retailing.
Its woes began in the 1990s, as big-box stores grew both in number and in size.
Walmarts vast selection meant parents could buy a toy in the same place where they picked up milk.
Then came e-commerce.
Toys are particularly suitable for online shopping.
Unlike a dress, they do not need to be tried on for size, and unlike a peach they do not need to be felt for ripeness.
Those of prime toy-buying age, parents with young children, are busy.
Women aged 25-44 spend almost as much time shopping as they do eating and drinking.
Given the choice of buying a train set online or in a store, particularly when a toy shop can transform even the calmest child into an insatiable lunatic, many parents opt to buy online.
Amazon makes that extraordinarily convenient.
The result is that many former Toys R Us kids have no interest in being Toys R Us parents.
Cowen, a financial-services firm, expects 41% of toys and games in America to be purchased online this year, about twice the proportion sourced from the internet in 2009.
Toys R Us also suffers from other common ills.
The first is a heavy burden of debt.
Three private-equity firms bought Toys R Us in 2005 in a leveraged buyout, adding substantially to its borrowings; it pays around $400m a year in interest costs, even as it tries to compete with Amazon.
It also has $400m in secured and unsecured debt maturing next year.
Many expected a bankruptcy, but the filing, just ahead of the vital holiday selling season, underlines how squeezed the firm has become.
Two other retailersPayless ShoeSource, a 61-year-old discount shoe-seller from Kansas, and Gymboree, which began selling childrens clothing in 1986are among those that declared bankruptcy this year after being backed by private-equity firms that left them similarly weighed down.
Second, Toys R Us has not helped itself.
Like many department-store chains, its inventory has been painfully slow to adapt to changing trends.
Sales of fidget spinners, a toy that has become ubiquitous in the past year, for instance, got twirling online first.
Nor is it clear whether its strategy of trying to lure families to its shops with live events, such as music classes for children, will work.
Like so many other retailers, Toys R Us is striving to build its business online.
That has been bumpy work.
In 2000, back when Amazon was still trying to move beyond selling books, Toys R Us joined with the e-commerce giant to manage online toy sales.
Four years later it sued Amazon, arguing that the e-tailer had broken the terms of their agreement.
In 2006 a judge agreed, but 11 years on that victory gives scant solace.
IN THEORY, overnight air travel should be wonderfully convenient.
Instead of booking a hotel for the night and losing a day, travellers simply sleep while they fly.
In reality, sleeping on a plane is hard, and at an airport tougher still.
The chairs in terminals, nobodys idea of comfort to begin with, tend to have armrests that make splaying out unfeasible.
Even in business-class lounges, travellers contort themselves into impossible shapes to pretend that workspace desks are actually beds.
But soon there may be less need for such acrobatics.
Sleep pods are coming to more and more airports.
Last month, Washington Dulles International put out a call for proposals for a company to provide a quiet and comfortable place within the airport to sleep, relax, or work while waiting to board a flight.
Mexico Citys airport has just added sleep pods with a space-age design for $30 a night.
YotelAir, which offers pods in Amsterdam, London and Paris, is a touch more expensive at $42 for four hours.
Dearer still is Minute Suites, which has operations in three American airports with a fourth coming later this year.
Its prices start at $32 an hour.
NapCity, which is yet to sign its first lease, will charge $45 for the first hour and a slightly lower rate after that.
The concept is not new.
Japan opened its first capsule hotels in the late 1970s.
But today sleep pods seem to be on the verge of conquering Western airports.
And they have taken on a distinctly Western style, leaving behind the Asian modeloften little more than a mattress and the minimum requisite space for a human body.
Some have televisions and charging stations and sell items such as toothbrushes.
That is great news for flyers.
But the bigger question for the future of sleep pods is whether they make sense for airports.
One concern may be revenue.
Airports generally take a cut of the money that retailers in the terminal make.
That is by no means pocket change.
The founder of one capsule hotel company told Bloomberg that a single seat in a restaurant can generate $20,000 a year.
It is unclear whether sleeping pods, even the most-compact of which take up the space of a couple of restaurant seats, will generate returns that big.
And so airports may think twice before giving up room to them.
Airports also may be wary of creating new competition for nearby hotels.
They enjoy a good relationship with these hotels, which offer lodging for airline crews and stranded passengers, and send shuttles to and from the airports.
Hoteliers would surely balk if airports cosied up to their cheaper and more-convenient rivals.
But travellers are willing to do a lot for a good nights sleep.
Take, for example, the new bus service that runs from Los Angeles to San Francisco, which Gulliver recently reported on .
It goes out of its way to take longer so that passengers can get eight hours of rest.
Whether airports will be equally willing to let its customers get some shut-eye remains to be seen.
FINANCIERS with PhDs like to remind each other to read your Kindleberger".
The rare academic who could speak fluently to bureaucrats and normal people, Charles Kindleberger designed the Marshall Plan and wrote vast economic histories worthy of Tolstoy.
Read your Kindleberger is just a coded way of saying dont forget this has all happened before.
So to anyone invested in, mining or building applications for distributed ledger money such as bitcoin or ethereum: read your Kindleberger.
Start with A Financial History of Western Europe , in which Kindleberger documents how many times merchants in different centuries figured out clever ways of doing the exact same thing.
They made transactions easier, and in the process created new deposits and bills that increased the supply of money.
In most cases, the Brgermeister or the king left these innovations in place, but decided to control the supply of money and credit themselves.
It is good for the king to be in charge of his own creditors.
But also, it has always been tempting for private finance to create too much money.
There is no evidence that money born on a distributed ledger will be clean of this sin.
Distributed ledgers, which borrow private computers from around the world to update the same list of accounts, address one ancient challenge of finance: how to make sure a transaction between two people located far apart is credible to both.
Other innovations have done the same.
In 1773 banks in England went in on a clearinghouse in London, for example, an improvement on the system of managing separate ledgers with each bank.
The banks themselves took in gold coincumbersome to carry and verifythen created new money by offering more in loans than the gold they had on deposit.
In 1776 Adam Smith described coins as an earth-bound highway, where bank money offered a waggon-way through the air.
(Quote from Kindleberger.
Read your Kindleberger.)
Your blogger challenges any bitcoin operator to praise his own disruptions more loftily.
Over the next century the currency school, which wanted to lock down growth in money, argued with the banking school, which wanted ever more waggons in the air.
We cant look back now and say either side definitively won, because this argument cannot ever possibly be won.
Creditors and business owners want the supply of money to grow slowly.
Debtors and employees want it to grow faster.
We might sooner tease out the true nature of the Holy Spirit.
Bankers talk about governance, ways to ensure private banks and central bankers make sound decisionsso they create just enough money make commerce easier, but not so much that the system collapses through inflation or panics.
The developers behind distributed ledgers, however, often talk as if governance is something they are beyond.
They are not.
Computer code is just a set of rules.
Code is governance.
And it can change.
Take bitcoin: if a supermajority of the computers running the bitcoin distributed ledger run an upgrade, the upgrade becomes the new code.
But behind each computer is a human, making decisions.
Distributed-ledger developers talk about a consensus-driven model, where you improve the system by bringing everyone on board.
So do central bankers.
And different humans have different interests.
In bitcoin, the people who own the computers verifying transactionsthe minerswant code that increases fees for miners.
People who use bitcoin want code that keeps those fees low.
These two sides could not agree, and so in August the bitcoin distributed ledger forkeda smaller group of developers created a copy with slightly different rules, called bitcoin cash.
Everyone who owned one unit of bitcoin also suddenly owned one unit of bitcoin cash.
Out of a governance dispute, new money.
In mid-September bitcoin traded at about $3900, while bitcoin cash fetched only $500.
Cointelegraph, a site for people who trade distributed-ledger currencies, also offers quotes and analysis on currencies called ethereum, ripple and litecoin.
You could argue that markets are already deciding which new currencies provide sound money.
And in doing so you would join the banking school of 19th-century England, or the people who loosened financial regulation in the late 1990s in America.
Your blogger does not believe this argument is wrong, necessarily.
But it is not new, and it has failed spectacularly in the past.
Distributed ledgers are useful technology, just like banks.
As they become a larger part of finance, the temptation to abuse them will be just as great.
History instructs that no governance is perfect, and humans are reliably awful.
This week Quartz , an online magazine, published an interview with Vitalik Buterin, the 23-year-old founder of ethereum.
The currency survived a crisis of credibility after a bug was discovered in 2016, leaving him up all night communicating with ethereums users and gathering consensus for actionmuch like the worlds central bankers a decade ago.
He seems thoughtful on the trade-offs of governance, but unaware that anyone has considered them before:

In the case of ethereum, if somehow 80% of ethereums users just ended up being cryptocurrency speculators, would we then have a social responsibility to start optimizing for that constituency, because that would end up being our constituency?
Thats an interesting philosophical question.
It is.
Read your Kindleberger.
MI GENTE lures listeners with a mesmerising hook, a thumping beat and lyrics about breaking down barriers.
A collaboration between J Balvin, a Colombian reggaeton star (pictured), and Willy William, a French producer, the latest product of this summers Latin craze is crooned almost entirely in Spanish.
(The title means My People; reggaeton borrows from hip hop, reggae and rap.)
The song topped the charts on Spotify, a streaming service, for weeks.
To be a crossover artist, you used to have to sing in English, said John Reilly, Mr Balvins publicist.
Now six of YouTubes top ten music videos are predominantly in Spanish.
In August the Billboard Hot 100, which tracks streams, sales and radio plays, sported seven Latin hits.
Just five graced the chart in all of 2016.
Latin music is helping the music industry to arrest years of decline.
Its growth is far outpacing that of other genres.
Last year Latin America yielded just $598m out of total global recorded-music revenue of $16bn, but sales increased by 12%, against 5.9% worldwide.
Streaming revenue in the region (including subscription services such as Spotify and Apple Music, as well as YouTube and other websites) leapt by 57%.
The Latin audience is a lean-back audience, explains Rocio Guerrero, Spotifys head of global cultures.
For radio-loving Latin Americans, who were less likely to own CD players and iPods than music fans elsewhere, streaming was a natural fit.
Now Latin fans are listening to hour upon hour of music.
Mexico and Brazil are among Spotifys top four markets by volume of streams.
Jess Lpez, chief executive of Universal Music Latin America, has said the streaming platform has democratised music consumption.
Fans have access to any music, anywhere.
Spotifys curators are also makers of fortune, promoting Latin hits and rising stars by featuring them in playlists like Baila Reggaeton (Dance Reggaeton), the apps third most popular.
A spot in Baila Reggaeton guarantees tens of millions of streams from the lists nearly 6m followers, which can propel a song into Spotifys global charts.
Danny Ocean, a Venezuelan unknown with a honey-smooth voice, released Me Rehso by himself on YouTubeand saw it soar when Spotify added it to Baila Reggaeton.
As streaming services have tracked and monetised, labels have noted Latin musics climb up the charts.
The Spanish version of Despacito, by Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee, a Puerto Rican duo, was already ubiquitous in Latin America when Justin Bieber heard it in a club in Bogot.
Mr Bieber asked if he could jump on the track.
The hybrid version released in April became the most-streamed song yet, with nearly 5bn audio and video plays.
Record labels are eager to tap a fan base that includes Latin Americans, Latinos in America (one of the countrys fastest-growing ethnic groups) and millions of teenagers worldwide drawn to reggaeton by Despacito and Mi Gente.
Latin music captures 8% of streams in America, which translates into advertising revenues and performance sales for music labels.
It still accounts for just 2% of songs and albums sold.
Would labels rather have a million streams or a million albums sold?
Its a no-brainer, says David Bakula of Nielsen Entertainment, a research firm.
Universal Music Group, the worlds biggest music company, which co-manages Mr Balvin and Mr Fonsi, first invested in digital teams in Latin America a decade ago.
That seems to be paying off.
Scorpio Music, the French indie label behind Mi Gente, last celebrated a Billboard hit in 1984.
It hopes Latin music will be a ticket back to renown.
We have to prove were relevant and that Mi Gente wasnt a lucky strike, said Chiara Belolo, its head of international development.
Mr Balvin has the same task.
He is working on a remix of his hit track with a huge mainstream artist.
He owes much of his success to streaming, he says, but Im the type of artist who doesnt like to talk about money.
Even so, he is now the kind who makes it.
IF SAUDI ARAMCO is a state within a state in Saudi Arabia, then the blandly named Oil Supply Planning and Scheduling (OSPAS) is its deep state.
To enter it, you pass tight security at Aramcos suburban-style headquarters in Dhahran, in the east of the kingdom.
The transition is eye-opening.
Suddenly, English is the common tongue even among Saudi Aramcons, as its workers are known.
Female employees, their faces uncovered, lead meetings of male colleagues.
The crisp banter is common to engineers everywhere.
A toilet break is called a pressure-relief exercise.
Deep within, OSPAS is even further removed from the kingdom outside.
The few executives with clearance to enter call it the nerve centre of the worlds largest oil company.
Using 100,000 sensors and data points on wells, pipelines, plants and terminals, it directs every drop of oil and cubic foot of gas that comes out of the kingdom (10% of the worlds oil supply), monitors it on giant screens as it heads to ports and power stations, and tracks oil tankers as they load.
Well managers in the desert outback wait daily for OSPAS to tell them what to do.
Its not just pretty graphics, an executive says, purring appreciatively over the 70-metre web of data flashing on the wall.
Because Aramco has all its upstream oil-and-gas operations in one country, it says it can justify investing big sumsand a lot of computer capacityon such technology, because it helps cut costs.
ExxonMobil operates in 40-plus countries.
It just cant do that, the executive adds, before apologising lest he appear to bad-mouth a client and partner, one of Aramcos American founding former shareholders.
Such comparisons will become more pertinent as Aramco opens itself up for an initial public offering (IPO).
Until recently it was just as cloistered from outside scrutiny as the kingdom itself, giving it more of a mystique than a good reputation.
This week it invited The Economist for a visit.
It only partially lifted its veil; its finances remain off-limits to everyone except the government, its only shareholder.
Affable executives dodge almost every attempt to wheedle out useful ways of comparing the firm with its listed peers (it has no peers, they dissemble).
But despite the hermeticism, Aramco has a good tale to tell.
Even as its rivals have retrenched owing to low prices, it has stuck to long-term plans, investing heavily in technology, training and the future of oil.
Its long-term approach may help explain one mystery.
For decades, Saudi Arabias declared oil reserves have confounded the industry; since 1989 they have remained suspiciously constant at around 260bn barrelsa dozen times those of Aramcos nearest listed rival (see chart).
As if to rub it in, Aramco says the kingdom has a whopping 400bn further barrels of resources that could one day become reserves.
These reserves are under audit ahead of the IPO, and executives are loth to discuss the process.
However, they argue that whereas other companies have to go far to find new reserves, Aramco can keep them constant simply by better stewardship of its existing fields.
Amin Nasser, the chief executive, says the companys recovery ratesthe share of oil recouped from what is available in a fieldaverage about 50%, but rise as high as 70%, compared with a global average of about 33%.
It does this by maintaining the pressure of its wells over the long term through gas re-injection and other means.
Raising recovery rates on average to 70% would add 80bn barrels to reserves, an executive says.
That is four times ExxonMobils latest total.
Unlike big listed companies, which scrapped growth plans when the price of oil slumped in 2014-16, Aramco has also been able to keep on investing because of its low costs, Mr Nasser says.
Increasing natural-gas output is now the main focus, but it has also raised oil production in some areas.
This is visible at the vast Shaybah field in Saudi Arabias blisteringly hot Empty Quarter, where Aramco last year upped oil output by 250,000 barrels a day (b/d) to 1m b/d, inaugurated a facility to process natural-gas liquids (pictured on previous page) and laid 650km of new pipelines across a mountain range of red sand dunes.
(Aramco also set out to repopulate the surrounding desert with oryx, gazelle and ostrich hunted almost to extinction.
They are now reproducing, although the first ostrich eggs to fertilise sadly cooked in the heat.)
Its second focus is technology.
Whereas some of its peers admit that they squandered the chance to invest in big data during the oil boom before 2014, Aramco has no such regrets.
Last year it inaugurated its home-grown TeraPowers technology, which uses 1trn pixel-like computational cells to simulate the flow of hydrocarbons through 500m years of geological time, enabling it to model oilfields in granular detail.
From Dhahran it can remotely direct drilling of horizontal wells in Shaybah, steering a drill-bit through miles of rock to within a few feet of its target.
(Royal Dutch Shell recently boasted of using similar remote-drilling technology in Argentina.)
To train young employees in understanding the subsurface, Aramco has a 3D virtual-reality cave in Dhahran, which shows the filigree of wells 1,500 metres below the surface of Shaybah, as if from a submarine.
Third, as Saudi Arabias most attractive employer, Aramco has less difficulty than its Western peers in attracting millennial recruits (born between around 1980 and 1996) who are turning away from the oil and gas industry.
It has kept up spending on international scholarships during the slump.
It plans to raise the share of women in the workforce from 25% to 40%.
Its chief engineer and head of human resources are both female.
Saudi labour laws still apply, however: female Aramcons may not stay overnight at an oilfield.
Aramcons pride themselves on a Westernised culture handed down from their American forefathers before nationalisation in 1980.
This makes them confident they can handle the listing.
From the way [Aramco] was built, from the beginning I would say it was ready for an IPO, Mr Nasser says.
The main change, he adds, will be issuing quarterly results.
But that underplays the challenges ahead.
For one thing, Aramco is not master of its destiny.
The future of the IPO, such as the decision on where and when to list, is in the hands of the government shareholder, represented by Muhammad bin Salman, the crown prince.
Domestic political tension and external frictions with Qatar risk delaying the IPO until 2019and further muddying the waters.
The potential valuation is also contentious.
MBS, as the crown prince is known, has said he believes Aramco is worth $2trn, though many analysts think that is over-ambitious.
To improve its chances, the kingdom is leaning toward a listing on the New York Stock Exchange rather than in London, because America has deeper pools of capital.
However, that would expose Aramco to legal risks it would prefer to avoid.
In order to bring in Chinese investors, the kingdom is also considering issuing some shares in Hong Kong.
However strong Aramco may be upstream, its lower-margin refining and petrochemicals divisions will drag down the valuation.
Aramco has some intriguing plans to mitigate this, hoping in the next few years to build a plant with new technology to turn crude oil directly into petrochemicalsin essence, leap-frogging refineries.
But this is untested.
In sum, the IPO is more for the kingdoms benefit than Aramcos.
It could have drawbacksexposing the firm to investors with short time horizons or to activists hostile to fossil fuels.
But the Aramcons appear determined to make the most of it.
Executives argue that oils future is bright, even if electric cars and cleaner fuels emerge.
Low costs mean there is no danger Saudi oil will become a sunset industry, says Mohammed al-Qahtani, head of its upstream division.
A listing will make Aramco the envy of the rest of the world.
RYANAIR, an Irish airline, is known for three things: low fares, the brash way in which Michael OLeary, its chief executive, advertises them, and its record for sticking to its flight schedules.
The last of these is key to its appeal: many businessmen chose Ryanair more for its punctuality than its cheapness.
And so the announcement on September 15th that it is cancelling over 2,000 flights between now and the end of Octoberaround 2% of its capacity over the periodis more serious than it may at first seem.
Ryanairs share price fell by more than 5% in the aftermath.
The problems began in early September when Ryanairs on-time record plunged, owing to a pilot shortage.
To restore punctuality, it cancelled many flights at short notice; passengers were marooned around Europe.
Up to 400,000 people booked on the 2,000 scrapped flights risk missing business trips and holidays.
Mr OLeary says the problems were caused by a change in the way the airline calculates pilots leave.
The holiday year used to run from April to March, but under pressure from the Irish Aviation Authority Ryanair is adopting the calendar year, as new EU rules require.
Ryanair obliged its pilots to take their annual leave between April and December this year.
So many are taking their holiday after the summer rush that not enough are available to maintain a full schedule.
Other airlines say Ryanairs woes are also due to pilots leaving for better pay and conditions.
Norwegian, a rival low-cost carrier with outsized ambitions, claims to have recruited over 140 Ryanair pilots this year (out of around 4,200 at the Irish carrier).
Mr OLeary denies that the airline has a shortage.
But evidence abounds that Ryanairs crewing problems will substantially lift costs per passenger kilometre.
Compensation and lost fares for the cancelled flights will cost 25m ($30m).
Ryanair will also need to spend an extra 30m on hiring pilots.
The combined cost is a small fraction of Ryanairs profits of 1.3bn in the year to March.
More serious was a less-noticed European Court of Justice ruling on September 14th which decreed that low-cost airlines employment disputes with crew must go to local labour courts in all the countries where airlines have bases (Irish labour law is broadly more flexible).
Analysts say the firms costs may rise by around 5% as a result.
Lately Mr OLeary has been warning of the possible consequences of a British exit from the European Common Aviation Area with no new aviation deal.
EU carriers may serve any airport within the bloc, but after Brexit flights between Britain and the remainder of the EU might have to cease.
Headlines about stranded passengers could damage British politicians, he claims.
This week he used Ryanairs debacle to return to the theme.
Imagine the problems this week times one thousand, he said.
That is what a no-deal Brexit will look like.
WE WONT do business with a company that is busy trying to sue us.
So said an uncharacteristically stern Justin Trudeau, Canadas prime minister, alongside his British counterpart, Theresa May, in Ottawa on September 18th.
The two had teamed up to take on Boeing.
The giant American aeroplane-maker is pressing Donald Trumps administration to impose duties on commercial jets made by Canadas Bombardier.
Boeing says its smaller rival is using Canadian government subsidies to sell aircraft to Delta, an American carrier, at below cost price.
Few in either country question that Bombardier has had vital financial support from the Canadian and British governments since 2005 for its small jetliner, the C-Series.
As the planes development costs soared, to $5.4bn, Bombardier struggled to find buyers for it; financial trouble followed.
An estimated C$4bn ($3.4bn) in state support, including C$2.8bn in 2015, stopped a nosedive.
It was not until 2016 that the aircrafts future seemed assured, when Delta ordered 75 units.
Boeing then accused Bombardier of dumping the jets into America at absurdly low prices and asked the Commerce Department to impose countervailing duties.
A preliminary ruling is due on September 25th.
Aircraft-makers are no strangers to subsidy disputes.
Brazil, home to Embraer, which makes a rival to the C-Series, has complained to the World Trade Organisation (WTO) about Bombardier.
But Boeing is a particularly active litigant, not only against Bombardier but against Airbus, which it says got billions of dollars of cheap loans from the EU.
Naturally, Boeing itself got billions of dollars of help (in the form of military contracts) to get off the ground back in the 1950s and 1960s.
Nor does it have a plane that competes with the C-Series.
Boeing says it wants a level playing field, but it is not even on the field, spits Fred Cromer, president of Bombardier Aerospace.
That may be problematic, as industries usually need to show material injury to gain protection from anti-subsidy duties.
Boeing has not made planes the size of the C-Series since 2006, notes Ed Bastian, Deltas chief executive, and has no plans to do so.
Instead Boeing offered to lease us second-hand planes built in Brazil, he says.
And when Boeing accused Bombardier of selling its planes to Delta for less than they cost to build, it appeared to forget that it did the same with over 300 of its 787 jets.
Furthermore, its estimate of the cost of the C-Series was inflated by looking at only one year early in the production life cycle.
Even so, at the Commerce Department Boeing may be pushing on an open door.
Wilbur Ross, the commerce secretary, has imposed countervailing duties on imports ranging from steel plate from South Korea to tool chests from China, and has angered Canada by placing a levy of up to 24% on its softwood lumber.
Boeing has reasons to guard against Bombardier.
First, it fears encirclement by state-subsidised aircraft makersnot only Airbus and Bombardier, but ambitious state-supported Chinese and Russian producers.
Second, Bombardier might grow into another Airbus, a rival Boeing did not take seriously until it was too late.
Bombardier could stretch its fuel-efficient C-Series planes to challenge Boeings smallest airliner, a big earner for the American firm but based on an old design.
Strangling the baby in the pram may prove rather convenient, says an adviser close to Boeing.
In the meantime, Mr Trudeau and Mrs May are both lobbying Mr Trump on Bombardiers behalf, and Canada is likely to appeal in the courts and at the WTO.
If Boeing gets its way, about 3,500 jobs will be threatened in Quebec, where Canadian politicians are wary of stirring up separatist sentiment, and a further 4,500 in Northern Ireland, where Bombardier is the largest private-sector employer.
Mrs Mays Conservative government is propped up by the ten MPs from the provinces Democratic Unionist Party; Bombardier lies in east Belfast, the partys heartland.
Canada has also threatened to cancel a likely $5bn order of military jets from Boeing if the American company prevails against Bombardier; Britain could follow its lead.
Several airlines, fearing less competition among planemakers, are unhappy with Boeings behaviour and privately threaten to shun its jets if it continues to bully its smaller rival.
This may be the trade case that ends up costing Boeing much more than it has to gain.
Last week, two news items hit my radar screen.
Tax reform moved to center stage in Washington, and Harvard Universitys not-for-profit endowment underperformed again.
These two headlines meld into one for me, since I dont understand how a college endowment  such as Harvards $37 billion larder  can be a tax-free entity.
Currently, the vast majority of private and public universities and colleges are tax-exempt, as defined by Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(3), due to their educational purposes that Washington has long supported as fundamental to fostering the productive and civic capacities of citizens.
A great idea if ever there was one.
Allowing schools to reinvest their modest profits to grow, enabling them to hire new teachers, purchase new equipment and build new labs, all makes sense and is great for the civic capacities of citizens.
If only this were true without the largest loophole of them all.
Virtually every college and university has an endowment, and, wouldnt you know, most dont always tap those funds for their students benefit.
Today, there are 57 schools with assets exceeding $1 billion in their endowments, and the more than $500 billion in all endowments goes untaxed.
The top school endowments trailing Harvard are Yale, at $25.8 billion, and Princeton and Stanford, both at more than $22 billion.
In 1990, Harvards tuition, including room, board and personal expenses, was $23,700, and its endowment was about $4.6 billion.
Today, tuition runs about $72,000.
So if Harvard only made some $3 billion in returns last year, and its still charging $72,000 thousand per student, then it clearly is no longer fostering the productive and civic capacities of citizens.
None of the schools in the $1 billion-plus endowment club needs this tax loophole.
Congress could easily come to a bipartisan win by closing this disgraceful abuse of the tax code  and help a lot of American families pay for school along the way.
If you dont want to be pals with your coworkers, dont bother applying for a job at Mekanism.
The old adage about keeping your personal and work lives separate is outdated, says Jason Harris, president and CEO of the Financial District-based creative services agency.
In fact, you might not even get an interview at Mekanism unless you have a personal connection to someone who works there.
We only hire friends, friends of employees and friends of friends, says Harris, who is 46 and lives in Lower Manhattan.
He says that at a high-pressure, always-on company like his, people have to like each other and want to spend time together.
If you want to clock out at the end of the day and leave your work and your co-workers behind, you wont succeed here.
This is not the right place for you, he says.
But it is the perfect place for Melissa Hill, 35, who also lives in Lower Manhattan.
She shares meals with her colleagues, they hang out on weekends, go to the movies and have parties.
They not only celebrate the good times but also have each others backs.
When Hills romantic relationship of three years ended, everybody  even the CEO  knew about it, she says.
But instead of having to come into the office pretending not to be devastated, Hill says that Harris gave her a week off to make her peace with the breakup.
Thats part of the culture here, she says.
While not all wage earners are this closely bonded to each other, 62 percent of employees say that being buddies with co-workers outside the workplace is beneficial, according to a recent survey conducted by Accountemps.
Experts such as Rich Deosingh, a senior regional vice president at Robert Half International, agree.
He says that people who work with friends tend to be more comfortable and productive, often get their work done ahead of schedule, and are easier to retain.
Having a pal at the office might also be a key to your overall happiness, according to Annie McKee, author of How To Be Happy at Work (Harvard Business Review Press, out now).
Going to your job with blinders on, focused only on the task at hand, doesnt serve you, she says, adding that we spend too much time at work to leave an important part of who we are, and our happiness, outside the door.
McKee advocates for something called companionate love, which reaches beyond the watercooler and renders relationships where people are safe to be themselves, let others show themselves, and feel as if they belong.
Were tribal people; we need to know that we count and [that] we are cared for, she says.
Thats something that Nancy, a manager at a downtown investment bank, who asked that her last name be omitted for professional reasons, knows a bit about.
When the 33-year-old Brooklyn resident was going through fertility treatments two years ago, I was an emotional wreck who had to pee all of the time, she says.
If my team didnt know that this wasnt my normal, that I was trying to have a baby and that the behavior would pass, they might have quit in a group exodus or I might have been fired.
But when she finally got pregnant, We were all so relieved and so happy.
It was a communal celebration, she says.
And while sharing it all and bearing it all might have worked out well for the employees in these situations, Deosingh cautions against not having boundaries.
You need to set limits, he says.
There are no hard and fast rules, according to McKee.
Its a complicated dance.
You have to know your co-workers and your organizations culture, she says.
But one thing is certain, according to all.
Having friends in the workplace makes you happier.
And when you are happy, you tend be more productive and do better work.
Relationships come before happiness.
Happiness comes before success, says McKee.
Developing personal relationships with your co-workers can be tricky.
They tend to be made offline, and you have to be willing to make the effort and invest the time, says Dawn Fay, district president at Robert Half International.
While company powwows or team-building exercises wont do the trick, heres what will, and how to get started:

Get out of the office

Invite a co-worker out for coffee or lunch.
Go beyond the job and the superficial.
Look for shared interests, ask about what they like to do, like to read, about their hobbies, says McKee.
Cast a wide net

Dont limit yourself to teammates, people who are at the same professional level or co-workers of the same sex.
People are overly cautious.
Be brave, says McKee, noting that its fine to ask someone of the opposite sex to sit down with you one-on-one.
And if youre married or in a relationship, you dont need to bring your partner along, like Vice President Mike Pence does.
Put yourself out there

Look for opportunities to lend a helping hand, says Deosingh.
One simple way to get started is by offering to assist on someones charity drive.
Mind your boundaries

While honest, open and caring relationships are your aim, stay away from talking about paychecks, what you heard in meetings or otherwise disclosing information your office chums shouldnt know.
Says Fay: People need to hear the right things from the right people at the right time.
Leon Cooperman is still smarting from his battle with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
They are  I dont want to say a criminal enterprise  but they basically abuse their position and theyre very wrong-footed in what they do, Cooperman said Wednesday at a breakfast hosted by the New York Hedge Fund Roundtable.
In May, Cooperman and his hedge fund Omega Advisors entered into a settlement with the SEC in which he did not admit wrongdoing but was nevertheless forced to pay $4.9 million to settle charges that he used insider information to make trades in Atlas Pipeline Partners in 2010.
The settlement was better than the $10 million fine and five-year ban from the industry the SEC initially offered.
I told them to go F themselves, Cooperman said of the SECs initial offer, the Post reports.
Cooperman, who has long maintained his innocence, has signed onto Bill Gates and Warren Buffetts Giving Pledge and provides college scholarships to Essex County, NJ, students, said there were better things he could do with the money.
I tell the government, what you guys are costing me, I could send 2,500 kids to college.
They didnt give a damn, Cooperman said.
They use taxpayer money to fund their peccadillos, he said.
Dear John: On July 26, I spotted this situation at the Stamford, Conn., station of Metro-North.
I saw a cylinder on the track as I came down the western-most escalator for Track 3.
I was curious, because it looked like it wasnt a soda can.
I peered over the edge of the track and, lo and behold, there was a cell phone sticking out from underneath it.
I looked for someone in authority and found a conductor from the New Canaan train on the adjacent track.
I showed it to her and went to the farthest west point of the platform.
As I waited for the train, the conductor came back to look at the cylinder with another man.
They then went back to whatever they were doing.
My train came and I left.
Two weeks later, I went to New York and took the same escalator.
The cylinder was still there, although it had moved a few inches toward the center of the track.
It just wasnt on top of the phone anymore.
I took a picture and Im sending it to you.
I tried the if you see something, say somethingroutine.
That didnt work.
I hope you can get someone to pay attention.
Dear B.C.
: As you know, I called the MTA, which operates the Metro-North Railroad, and it was quick to act.
An explosives dog was sent onto the tracks, and the objects were cleared.
It was a blue thermos alongside a flip phone that was opened and, after all these weeks, still had a battery charge.
This is one of those situations where we were all hoping that it was a false alarm.
And it was.
See something, say something is a great motto.
But it also has to be followed by do something, which the people at the station clearly didnt do.
Im glad the MTA was more diligent.
Thanks for letting us know.
And, everyone, its important to report suspicious things.
The cops cant be everywhere.
And while its a pain to check out all false alarms, its better than having something bad happen.
Dear John: I read somewhere that Bill Clinton entered the room in which Hillary was hunkered down with her top strategists and said, The most important thing to remember to win the election is jobs, jobs, jobs.
They threw the old fool out!
The rest, as they say, is history.
Keep up the good work.
Dear B.S.
: I dont know if that really happened, but the theory behind it isnt BS, B.S.
All elections are about pocketbook issues.
The one exception might be when voters feel personally vulnerable and they think one candidate can protect them better than another.
So, advice to all future candidates: Ignore peoples financial concerns at your own peril.
There are hotels for gays, millennials, pets  even afternoon trysts so why not properties focused on the college campus crowd?
Thats the mission behind Graduate Hotels, a 3-year-old boutique brand that develops properties solely in college communities.
There are already Graduate hotels in places like in Berkeley, Calif., Madison, Wis., Ann Arbor, Mich., and Oxford, Miss.
But for Graduate founder Ben Weprin, those locations arent enough.
Since the inception of the Graduate brand, weve had our eyes on the Ivy League market, he explains to the Post.
And by 2019, Graduate will indeed matriculate with its new property near Yale University in New Haven, Conn.  its first in an Ivy League town.
Dear John: I live in Poland, and have for the past 10 years.
I remember when World Cup soccer was on TV in 2010.
I believe it was Paraguay vs. France.
Already a borefest.
The final score was an unexciting 0  0 tie.
And it was typical of the entire tournament.
Even the German network said the tournament was langweilig (boring!).
Dear J.N.
: Poland!
You made my day.
My column is read by someone in Poland!
Please show it to a friend so I can say my columns readership in Poland doubled.
Im writing this while watching the New York Giants opening-day loss to the Dallas Cowboys by a 19  3 score.
Boring!
And there were probably a dozen baseball games just today that were also boring.
The fact is, soccer in the US is becoming a bigger business.
There are now three professional teams in New York.
And millions are spent by parents on soccer fees and gear.
I have this revolutionary concept for soccer that will make it more fun.
If you know anyone who wants to fund a new extreme soccer league, send them my way.
Panama is open for business  but money launderers need not apply.
That was the message of Juan Carlos Varela, president of Panama, speaking with the Post on Thursday night at a party he hosted at the Four Seasons Hotel in New York, where he sipped on gourmet Panamanian coffee and feasted on his countrys rich cuisine.
Varela said he has been improving the regulatory climate since he assumed office three years ago.
Panama took a beating with the leaking in 2016 of 11.5 million legal documents from the law firm Mossack Fonseca, detailing potential money fraud.
Varela said it wasnt fair to characterize the documents as the Panama Papers, a term popularized by the media.
The controversial documents were held by the Panamanian law firm and purportedly revealed personal financial information of wealthy persons and public officials globally.
If you receive an e-mail link from Equifax offering to help you survive its massive security breach, dont click on it.
It is likely a scam.
Thats the warning of Ray Mignone, a financial adviser in Little Neck, Queens.
Be wary of any e-mails you receive which suggest you click on this or that link.
It is safe to say that some fraudster will pretend to be from Equifax, said Mignone, who has frozen all of his credit accounts.
He said everyone should do the same.
An Equifax spokeswoman agreed that consumers should be careful of fake Web sites.
These scams, she said, designed to capture personal information [known as phishing], are designed to appear as if they are from Equifax and the e-mails may link to Web sites purporting to be operated by Equifax.
She added that Equifax only sends mail to consumers through addresses that end in @equifax.com; @trustedid.com and @e.equifax.com

Mignone added that the security breach revealed in the summer, which affected about half of all Americans, was outrageous.
Those Equifax executives, Mignone said, should have to go to jail.
They failed in their security because they wouldnt spend the money to adequately protect people.
And they failed to spend enough money because they didnt want to hurt their profits.
Mignone is angry because the breach can affect many aspects of a persons life.
Its not only credit, it also can hurt you when you seek a mortgage or when a prospective employer reviews your records, Mignone said.
He believes that credit bureaus offering one year of free monitoring is inadequate.
Once the year is up, theyll want you to pay for more.
They should be offering you free monitoring for life, he contends.
The Equifax spokeswoman didnt respond to Mignones complaints.
Besides freezing your accounts, Mignone said, you should never link to someone claiming to represent a company.
When in doubt, he says, go to the companys Web site yourself.
Mignone also believes that consumers should Google Federal Trade Commission Equifax Data Breach.
Follow the instructions at the FTC site to discover if your information has been hacked, Mignone said.
You can also go to Equifaxsecurity2017.com for security protection.
Mignone had another recommendation: Examine your credit records, because bad things could be happening.
Every American has the opportunity to pull their credit report from all three reporting bureaus once per year, free of charge, he said.
Mignone also recommends AnnualCreditReport.com.
It is the only Web site that is approved for this process without hidden fees or charges that might be associated with pulling your credit.
Should one also call the three credit rating bureaus that store this vital information?
You can try.
But good luck, Mignone said.
Ive yet to talk to anyone who actually got through.
The phone numbers are:

Equifax, (800) 349-9960

Experian, (888) 397-3742

Transunion, (888) 909-8872

Advisers say smart consumers should scan credit reports, looking for any suspicious activities.
These include:
Let me explain to Fed chief Janet Yellen what is going on in the US economy.
It appears she needs to know.
At her press conference on Wednesday, Yellen said of the inflation rate being suppressed, I will not say that the committee clearly understands what the causes are of that.
I am confounded by her committees lack of basic understanding of the velocity of money and its effects on the inflation rate.
Over the past 10 years, wages for Americas middle class have been flat.
Some studies suggest that when inflation is figured in, wages are at the same level as in 1995.
A large minority of the American workforce over the past eight years has lost decent-paying jobs that supported them having a house, a car and medical insurance.
Now they are forced to take multiple part-time jobs with no benefits just to make ends meet.
Another aspect under her purview is the lack of interest paid on savings deposits.
Banks have been giving pennies for each $100 put into a savings account, all the while putting their cash on the Feds balance sheet and collecting a handsome rate of return.
Another point of contention: Its a convenient narrative to say that Amazon is decimating the retail sector.
But lets face it, many Americans who used to shop at malls can no longer aspire to own a new set of clothes each season.
First of all, they no longer have a job that requires anything more than a pair of yoga pants and a shirt, or a pair of jeans and a team jersey.
These Americans have hard decisions each and every week on how to spend their meager wages.
They shop the rim of grocery stores  the outside ring where cheap protein lives  for milk, cheese and eggs.
This is how they survive, not thrive.
Everything I wrote suggests that money has no velocity now.
So if a dollar earned does not translate into many dollars spent as it moves through the system, because members in that system are either struggling with the present or fearful of the future, then you have disinflation.
The lack of inflation is no mystery to me.
All the policies over the past decade have curbed economic growth.
Just ask anyone you see shopping the rim.
Amid the tsunami of layoffs, cutbacks and resignations currently plaguing the magazine business, its an odd time for a magazine to relaunch  let alone entirely rebrand.
But Advertising Age  Crain Communications 87-year-old ad industry bible  is doing just that at the kickoff of Advertising Week on Monday.
Next week, Advertising Age officially becomes Ad Age, marking a comprehensive print, digital and brand-extensions overhaul that Editor Brian Braiker says will transform the publication from a mere trade to a bona fide cultural must-read.
Everything is being redone  a new look, logo, color and palate, says Braiker, who joined Ad Age in the spring from digital industry site Digiday.
We will still cover agencies and campaigns, but we are widening our reach.
Because today everything is a brand, everything touches the broader culture, he tells the Post.
While Ad Ages Web site will be completely redesigned to better reflect its culture-meets-marketing mashup, the print mag will see the most dramatic overhaul.
The first issue on Monday will have a series of covers, including controversy-plagued NBC anchor Megyn Kelly and a trio of Facebookers including Sheryl Sandberg.
Braiker says the new Ad Age will feature a more contemporary aesthetic and (most crucially) heavier cover stock  a costly investment at time when many mags are reducing frequency (see Teen Vogue) or going digital-only (Nylon).
But Braiker insists there is plenty of money to be made from print pubs  even those with limited focus and niche audiences like Ad Age.
Look out, youngster.
Grandma or Grandpa may be elbowing you out of the way for that job.
Indeed, the elderly labor participation rate is setting records, according to recent research.
More older Americans  those 65 and over  are working than at any time since the turn of the century, reports the Pew Research Center.
Todays older workers are spending more time on the job than their peers in previous years, the Pew study said.
This senior workforce growth has been taking place in a period when overall labor participation rates have been in decline.
During the past decade, the overall labor participation rate  those eligible for work who have a job or are seeking one  has declined from 65.8 percent in August 2007 to 62.9 percent last month, according to the Labor Departments Bureau of Labor Statistics.
The trend of more gray hairs seeking work or working is projected to continue.
The number is expected to increase fastest for the oldest segments of the population, people ages 65 to 74 and older  through 2024, according to Mitra Toossi, a BLS economist.
This will come, BLS officials added, at the same time that labor participation rates for other groups will rise by single digits or, in some cases, see a decline.
The recent trend of the elderly working reverses a long-term slide in senior worker participation rates.
In 1985, 10.8 percent of the 65-plus population was working full or part time or looking for work.
As of last month, after incremental gains virtually every year over the past three decades or so, the percentage stood at 19.2 percent, says Erik Kriss, an AARP spokesman.
Kriss added, Every indication is that percentage will pass 20 percent in the next few years.
A longtime entertainer, writer, actress and radio host is one of those who will probably help the trend push past the 20 percent level.
Ill work until I die.
I want to work to the last breath, says Manhattan resident Gilda Miros, who is about to turn 79.
The eclectic career of this celebrated Puerto Rican movie/theater actress and documentary producer goes on and on.
Miros is the author of 10 books, including Mis Mejores Entrevistas de Radio (My Best Radio Interviews).
Miros looks forward to plenty of work.
Its not over until its over.
And even then, it really isnt over.
She is also working on a Broadway play for next year, De La Montana de Venimos (We Come from the Mountain).
It is a play that explores Latin Americas musical heritage.
Miros is also part of the Performing Actors Legacy (PAL), which has research showing that most elderly performers have a very good quality of life because they experience gratification in performing their arts.
Why are there more senior dynamos like Gilda Miros?
BLS officials say the elderly today arent what they were a generation ago.
The elderly are generally healthier and have longer life expectancies than previous generations.
They are better educated, which increases their likelihood of staying in the labor force, says Elka Torpey, another BLS economist.
She adds that work in general has become more sedentary, allowing older workers to continue in the labor force.
Uber wants to know how it can get back in business in London.
Wed like to know what we can do .
to sit down and work together to get this right, Tom Elvidge, Ubers general manager in the city, told The Sunday Times of London.
Ubers operating license was stripped Friday after the newspaper revealed that the head of the Metropolitan Polices taxi unit had accused the ride-hailing service of failing to report serious crimes by drivers, including sex attacks, to avoid damaging [its] reputation.
Transport for London (TfL), the agency overseeing the citys transit, cited Ubers approach to reporting serious criminal offences as a key reason for declaring the company not fit and proper to hold a license.
Uber is Londons biggest taxi operator with 40,000 drivers.
TfL and other local officials warned Saturday that Uber had plans to flood the British capital with cars licensed by surrounding communities to get around the ban.
Uber declined to confirm or deny the claim.
Elvidges tone changed from Friday, when he promised immediate legal action and said London Mayor Sadiq Khan had caved in to a small number of people who want to restrict consumer choice.
see also British minister slams 'blanket ban' on Uber LONDON  A British government minister has criticized the London...

Elvidge also told the paper that the regulators had refused over several months to talk substantively about the licence renewal or to specify what, if any, reforms it wanted from the company before relicensing it.
Among Ubers possible concessions were giving its drivers employment benefits and imposing limits on drivers hours to address road-safety concerns, as it does in New York.
Nearly 600,000 people have signed an online petition sponsored by the company to Save Your Uber in London.
In an official response posted on the petition site, Khan backed the license removal.
I have every sympathy with Uber drivers and customers affected by this decision, but their anger really should be directed at Uber, Khan said.
They have let down their drivers and customers.
Cash-strapped Toys R Us, despite obtaining $3 billion in Chapter 11 financing, is still not getting all its shipments from nervous suppliers, The Post has learned.
Some lenders who finance and insure toy makers orders are refusing to ship containers of dolls, car sets, slime and other toys, because they are having trouble pricing the risk of doing business with the chain, sources said.
As a result, containers of Toys R Us goods are piling up at Asian ports as they wait to eventually be loaded on to ships to be delivered to some 18 US distribution centers and then the retailers 1,697 stores, the sources said.
The specialized lenders, called factors, are still weighing their risk and dont know how to price their loans, one toy industry insider said.
Without a factor signing off, no supplier will ship their goods.
If a resolution isnt reached soon, Toys R Us could be missing some inventory at the start of the holiday season next month, sources said.
The factors have the power right now, said one toy industry expert who did not want to be identified.
Toys R Us filed for Chapter 11 on Sept. 18 because in the days preceding the move toy makers had grown antsy with the embattled chain.
Some demanded cash payment before they would ship, Toys R Us Chief Executive David Brandon revealed in a court filing this week.
The $3 billion debtor-in-possession financing deal was supposed to cure those jitters.
To a large extent it has  but some more cautious lenders are holding back.
Its a huge decision whether these companies want to expose themselves to further risk, said bankruptcy lawyer Jeffrey Cohen, who said he has spoken with a dozen toy makers who are owed between $50,000 and $30 million for goods theyve already shipped to the bankrupt chain.
Deal or no deal, the toy makers may cancel up to 20 percent of their Toys R Us orders, according to Jeffries analyst Stephanie Wissink.
We are seeing some delays in the vendors releasing their shipments because of their concerns about Toys R Us ability to compete in the holiday season, Wissink told The Post.
CEO Brandon conceded as much this week.
The company has fallen behind some of its primary competitors on various fronts, he said in the court filing, including the general upkeep and the condition of our stores, our inability to provide expedited shipping options, and our lack of a subscription-based delivery service.
Procter & Gamble is disappointed that Nelson Peltz has a new ally in his bid to force his way onto the board of the consumer products giant.
P&G said proxy-advisory firm Glass Lewis, in backing the efforts of the activist investor, misunderstood how much progress it has been making.
We are disappointed that Glass Lewis failed to recognize the significant transformation that the P&G Board and management team are implementing for the benefit of all shareholders, P&G said in a statement, adding that it has the right team in place.
Citing P&Gs lagging performance relative to peers, Glass Lewis said late Thursday that P&G shareholders had adequate cause to vote Peltz onto the companys board during next months shareholder meeting.
Peltz, who heads Trian Partners, has long said that P&Gs team has become too insular.
As a result, P&G has lost market share to small, local brands that resonate more with younger shoppers.
P&Gs rivals are hip to trends, Peltz has said, noting Unilevers purchase of Dollar Shave Club last year and SE Johnsons purchase this week of Earth-friendly cleaning product makers Method and Ecover.
P&G has said Peltzs board presence would derail its progress.
A Manhattan man claims a top Facebook executive lied to him about a job position being closed  after he discovered the mans age.
Now hes suing the tech giant for age discrimination in a lawsuit that quotes CEO Mark Zuckerberg as saying young people are just smarter.
Stephen Cohen, 61, says top Facebook executives Carolyn Everson (vice president of global marketing) and Glenn Handler (director of sales and marketing staff) were all over him for a job as a communications associate after learning of his past as an executive at a major advertising firm and as a columnist for The New York Times.
But they turned cold after he sent his rsum  which showed hed graduated from Dartmouth College in 1978, according to the Manhattan federal court lawsuit.
I had fully expected, based on Mr. Handlers earlier communications, that I would at a minimum be granted an interview for the job, Cohen said in a court document tied to the lawsuit.
Instead I had been told that the position had suddenly closed.
The suit points the finger in part at Facebooks youthful CEO, Zuckerberg, 33, whom Cohen quotes as once having said: I want to stress the importance of being young and technical.
Young people are just smarter.
Why are most chess masters under 30?
A Facebook rep denied the charges.
Facebook is an equal opportunity employer, the spokesperson said.
We do not make hiring decisions based on age or any other protected characteristic.
We believe these claims are without merit and will mount a vigorous defense.
Ed Sheerans Shape of You on Friday became the most streamed song on Spotify, with 1.318 billion plays since its Jan. 6 release.
Shape of You bumped Drakes One Dance from the top position on the streaming service.
Powered by the hit single, Sheeran, a 26-year-old British singer, also saw his total catalog soar to more than 10 billion plays on Spotify  earning him roughly $50 million in royalties.
Drake, too, has earned roughly $50 million from his Spotify plays, according to estimates.
The payout estimate is based on the widely held assumption that each track streamed by Spotify delivers about / cent to the artist.
Drakes One Dance has been played 1.317 billion times on Spotify.
Shape of You set a one-day, one-track record with more than 10 million Spotify streams on the March 3 launch of Divide, the album featuring the hit single.
The album also broke first-day records, with 56.7 million Spotify streams.
Only two other tracks can claim more than 1 billion streams from the service: Closer, by the Chainsmokers, and Lean On, by Major Lazer and DJ Snake.
Justin Biebers Sorry still has a chance to break the barrier, having racked up 974 million Spotify streams since its debut on Oct. 23, 2015.
Bridgewater Associates founder Ray Dalio said Friday that almost half of the jobs in the next two decades will be replaced by artificial intelligence.
By in large, the world is going to largely consist of people who can take language and put it into code, which then allows the computer to operate like a brain or people who are going to be displaced by that, Dalio told FOX Business Maria Bartiromo of Mornings with Maria.
The investor said the computers capacity to process more information than the human brain is the reason artificial intelligence (AI) is being implemented in financial services.
Those algorithms and that process allows people to get the best thinking not just the thinking that happens to be in peoples minds and it makes for an id meritocracy, he said.
Something like 40 percent of all jobs are going to be replaced over the next twenty years by these algorithms in various forms.
Dalio, founder of the worlds largest hedge fund, said coding, as an educational area and subsequent career path, will help bridge the gap of widespread jobs loss.
Everybody [has] to learn to code.
Its like not knowing how to read and write in the new age, he said.
The Principles: Life and Work author finds the idea of riding the principles and converting them into codes as an invaluable asset that can create jobs and elevate the world in a greater way.
Education and coding is very fundamental and I think its empowering.
It can give many more people jobs.
It can make that coding so much better, Dalio said.
The offshore website that hosts hordes of revenge porn  including illegal shots of underage girls  lost its sole source of revenue Friday following a Post expose of its sleazy operation.
A Spanish online-ad company said it was pulling its business from Anon-IB  also known as the Best Anonymous Image Board  and thanked The Post for making us aware of this.
Anon-IB was raking in $1,500 a day from Barcelona-based ExoClick in exchange for hosting ExoClicks ads on its site, according to an estimate from the web-monitoring firm Alexa.
ExoClick has a zero tolerance policy to any forms of illegal content on publisher websites (as per our guidelines), spokesman Giles Hirst said in an email statement.
On discovery of such content we will always take swift action to remove ads and ban the publisher from our network.
Several women told The Post that nude images taken when they were as young as 16  and possessed by their ex-boyfriends  have appeared on Anon-IB.
Paige Rines of New Hampshire said she was anonymously messaged hateful things once her photos were posted, and had to abandon plans to work as a counselor for troubled teens.
If anyone looked up my name, no one would let me work with children, lamented Rines, now 23.
Anon-IB also recently featured a collage of what appeared to be obviously adolescent girls with their breasts exposed.
Under federal law, possessing or distributing naked and sexually suggestive images of anyone under 18 can be prosecuted under child pornography laws and is punishable by up to life in prison.
The Queens District Attorneys Office has told The Post that Anon-IB is based in Panama.
The site frequently changes its web address, and currently has one thats assigned to the country of Laos.
Anon-IB didnt immediately return a request for comment.
These cereal killers are sorry.
General Mills is reviving original Trix in all its colorful, artificial-flavored glory after consumers revolted against the companys natural version of the classic kids cereal.
In 2015, General Mills announced it was removing artificial flavors and dyes because, apparently, thats what some customers wanted.
Were simply listening to consumers and these ingredients are not what people are looking for in their cereal today, Jim Murphy, president of General Mills cereal division, wrote in a blog post at the time.
A post shared by General Mills Cereal (@generalmillscereal) on Sep 21, 2017 at 10:23am PDT

Except that the artificial dyes and flavors were what made Trix bright and fruity  and customers were less than pleased when the natural Trix debuted without either.
Its basically a salad now, a lawyer from Chicago told the Wall Street Journal.
The supposedly healthier Trix was created with a pretty broad array of fruit and vegetable concentrates, including radishes and turmeric powder.
But the new ingredients also had the effect of making the once vibrant cereal look washed out.
A post shared by General Mills Cereal (@generalmillscereal) on Oct 19, 2016 at 7:39am PDT

You guys are killing Trix, first the shapes, then the colors, and now its not even as fruity tasting as it used to be.
:( My favorite cereal is no longer what it used to be, maybe Trix are just for kids, Luke Mann wrote on General Mills Facebook page.
Sixty-two percent of people try to avoid artificial flavoring, according to a 2016 study from Nielsen Global.
Unfortunately, General Mills scientists couldnt recreate the color and flavor without the fake stuff.
The original cereal will be returning to aisles in October.
The more natural version will continue to be sold as well, according to the company.
Apple lovers in Asia and Australia were less than impressed with the iPhone 8 when it hit stores Friday morning but New Yorkers turned out with the usual fanfare, complete with long lines, hours of waiting and Apples very own hype man to get people excited.
Hundreds of people were outside of the Apple 5th Avenue flagship store Friday morning in a line that stretched halfway down 58th Street for their chance to get the new iPhone 8, which boasts a new glass back and 4K video shooting capabilities.
An Apple employee hype man stood near the entrance to the store, getting people excited for the phone, wooing and clapping as customers filed in.
We are so excited because [its] the first day in all the world [the phone is out], Rafael Rodrigues, 33, told The Post, adding he was up at 6 a.m. to get a good spot in line.
Rodrigues, his wife Daniele and their 3-year-old son Miguel came all the way from Brazil just to get the new phone because they didnt want to have to wait until December when it comes out in South America.
Its also much more expensive there, Rodrigues said.
He added the phone has a great camera and a good screen.
Julie Kanan from the Upper West Side commented on how well organized the event was.
I think people really get it.
Apple has it organized well.
They got it down, theyve got lots of support people around, so I think that makes it simple and easy.
Everyone inside the store is excited and focusedconcentrated only on getting their new tech and getting out of the store.
Kanan is excited about the new features.
I love them all  Im excited about the camera of course, Kanan gushed.
Just all the stuff people love, its all glass, its got the touch-sensitive screen and everything.
Despite the hype and excitement on Fifth Avenue, the iPhone 8 has gotten lackluster reviews, experts saying its hardly any different than the iPhone 7.
Tech company iFixit did a tech autopsy on the iPhone 8, which didnt reveal anything particularly notable, except some new screws and a way to remove the glass backing, engadget.com reported.
Others have said the staggered launchand the much more exciting iPhone X in the horizonhas hurt Apple more than it has helped.
I think demand is down from last year, for no other reason than you have another flagship phone, Neil Cybart, an Apple analyst at Above Avalon, told the Financial Times.
A portion of the iPhone launch demand is not materializing quite yet.
There's a domestic dairy glut that's so bad it's led some American farmers to spill milk.
National milk production is increasing faster than the processing capacity.
Another challenge facing the industry is total per capita consumption of fluid milk has been steadily falling for some time because of competition from other beverages and because the share of the nation's total population who are children continues to decline.
"In Michigan and the Northeast, milk is being dumped," said Gene Paul, legislative coordinator of National Farmers Organization, an Iowa-based organization which markets livestock, grain and milk for its members.
"Milk is just being thrown away, because they just don't have the processing capacity."
Also contributing to the dairy glut is that average production levels are rising as more-productive cows allow big dairies to experience output growth.
Regardless, it comes as tough trade talk from President Donald Trump and threats to ditch NAFTA, the North American Free Trade Agreement, is causing worries for American milk producers.
Mexico is a huge buyer of U.S. dairy products.
"Exports are a big component now of milk sales in this country," said Peter Fredericks, a dairy specialist with the U.S. Department of Agriculture and administrator in the agency's Northeast milk marketing area.
The USDA recently raised its milk production forecast for 2017, indicating that "increases in milk per cow more than offset a slower rate of milk cow expansion."
"There are certain supply-and-demand imbalances going on," said USDA's Fredericks.
"We're not seeing rivers of milk being dumped.
We're not seeing farmers foreclosed on  that type of thing."
Overall, U.S. milk consumption on average is rising between 1 and 2 percent annually but production is going up around 3 percent.
"We're seeing the growth of these very large dairies that have good cows, they have good technology and they just keep producing more and more milk," said Paul.
"Production just continues to increase, and there's no brakes on it.
And cooperatives are almost encouraging production by paying volume premiums."
American dairy farmers every year are producing about 3 billion more pounds of milk than the year before, according to a report released this month by CoBank.
It found the available processing capacity, particularly in the Northeastern and upper Midwestern states, "has strained the ability of dairy cooperatives to fill the role of market balancers."
In the Southwestern states, though, there's less of a dairy glut and less pain being felt by the dairy producers.
"It is a regional problem but a serious problem,' said Ben Laine, senior dairy economist at CoBank in Denver.
"It has put pressure on pricing, especially in some areas like Michigan.
It's depressed prices in other areas whenever you're forced to dump milk because you're not able to process it."
Last year, Michigan ranked No.
5 nationally in terms of milk production, with an estimated 97 percent of the state's dairy farms family owned, according to the United Dairy Industry of Michigan, a trade group.
Surplus milk produced by the state is exported to meet demand in other states since Michigan produces more than enough milk to supply its own needs.
"We're 'nip and tuck' on processing capacity," said Ken Nobis, a dairyman in central Michigan and president of Michigan Milk Producers Association.
"Our state's production has grown very rapidly, and it's grown faster than global consumption has increased."
In some cases, skim milk is dumped because there is sometimes the capacity to take the butter fat out of it, which Nobis said is between 50 and 60 percent of the value of the milk product.
That said, he's still heard of "cases where everything was dumped."
Yet it's not all sour for the dairy industry.
Per capita consumption of dairy products in the U.S. as a whole has been increasing, helped by strong growth for butter and certain yogurt categories.
Whole milk also has been doing better in terms of sales growth than the overall fluid milk category.
Also, more cheese products are being sold today and not just for hamburgers or meals but for snacks too.
Orville Redenbacher's popcorn owner, Conagra Brands, is acquiring Angie's Artisan treats, maker of Angie's Boomchickapop popcorn, the company announced Friday.
"Adding the Angie's Boomchickapop brand to Conagra's portfolio is another important step in our ongoing plan to modernize our portfolio and accelerate growth," CEO Sean Connolly said in a statement.
The deal was first reported by CNBC.
Terms were not disclosed.
It is expected to close by the end of the year.
Conagra has been building up its snack businesses through acquisitions, including Frontera Foods in 2016 and Duke's meat snacks' parent company earlier this year.
For Angie's, the proposed acquisition will give the popcorn company resources to continue the growth it had under its private equity owner TPG Growth.
"We are confident that the Angie's Boomchickapop business will continue to expand its reach as a part of Conagra Brands," said Angie Bastian, namesake and founder of the company

Angie's began 16 years ago as Angie's Kettle Corn, which Angie and her husband Dan started in their Mankato, Minnesota, garage.
They later renamed the company to reflect its broadening product assortment, but kept the name "Angie's" to distinguish from the many popcorn brands named for men: Orville, Cracker Jack and Vic's.
McGrath North served as legal counsel to Conagra Brands.
Lindquist & Vennum was legal adviser to Angie's.
Houlihan Lokey and Kirkland & Ellis were financial and legal advisers, respectively, to TPG Growth.
Olo CEO Noah Glass: Providing restaurants new online business through Amazon 11:57 AM ET Fri, 22 Sept 2017 | 03:15

Amazon bought grocery chain Whole Foods, and now it wants to work with more restaurants as it moves further into the food industry.
The internet giant has partnered with Olo, a New York-based food delivery service, to list Olo's clients on the Amazon Restaurants food delivery section of Amazon.com.
GrubHub, a rival Chicago-based restaurant takeout service, saw its shares fall more than 6 percent on the news, before regaining some ground to a drop of nearly 2 percent.
"Amazon's obsession with providing great customer and restaurant experience supports the evolving expectations and behaviors of today's consumer," said Noah Glass, CEO of Olo, about the deal.
Amazon Restaurants has integrated into Rails, Olo's application programming interface, which allows for restaurants to list their menus on third-party marketplaces.
Through the integration, Olo's restaurant partners will be featured on Amazon Restaurants, enabling orders through the delivery provider to go directly through a point-of-sale system.
Some of Olo's clients include Chipotle, Denny's, Shake Shack and Wingstop.
The goal of this partnership is to simplify the process for restaurants once customers' orders come in, while also allowing for companies to limit the amount of orders that they take during peak hours, Olo said in a press release.
"This integration will enable Amazon Restaurants to onboard new restaurants with ease, as well as quickly add more new choices and delivery options for customers," added Gus Lopez, general manager of Amazon Restaurants.
"We are excited to leverage Olo's digital ordering technology and continue rapidly growing our network of restaurants to give Amazon Prime members more options for fast delivery from their favorite brands," Lopez said.
GrubHub shares have been on a tear this year, up more than 35 percent in 2017.
Last month, Yelp announced it was selling Eat24, its online food-ordering business, to GrubHub.
The brands Seamless and MenuPages are also owned by GrubHub.
The race is on to get food delivered from popular restaurants to customers, and more quickly than ever before.
Finish Line shares rebounded Friday after tumbling more than 11 percent at one point in early trading.
The athletic footwear market became "much more promotional" in July and August, which pressured the retailer's second-quarter sales and gross margins, CEO Sam Sato told analysts and investors Friday.
He said he expects Finish Line's sales and margin trends to remain difficult for the rest of the year, but said he's confident in the retailer's long-term strategies.
Finish Lines shares were up more than 4 percent midafternoon Friday.
More than 70 percent of customer traffic has shifted to mobile, so Finish Line will focus on improving its digital capabilities, Sato said.
Initiatives include making webpages load faster and allowing customers to return products directly from Finish Line's website.
Finish Line already offers an app, but Sato said it will be updated to include in-store beacon and geofencing technology, which will connect customers' digital and physical shopping experiences.
On the brick-and-mortar front, Finish Line has already started renovating stores to integrate technology.
The company remodeled 10 stores during the quarter, Sato said.
Going into the holiday season, that total will be around 90, said Chief Financial Officer Ed Wilhelm.
"While the retail environment remains challenging, particularly for athletic footwear, I am confident that the work we are doing to tightly control expenses and manage inventories, along with the initiative to drive traffic and conversion, will allow us to achieve our full-year guidance while also positioning the company for improved long-term results," Sato said.
Finish Line reported a comparable sales decline  concerning to analysts and investors  of 4.5 percent during the second quarter.
The retailer said it continues to expect same-store sales to fall between 3 to 5 percent for both the third and fourth quarters of 2017.
Quarterly net income came in at $2.8 million, or 7 cents per share, down from $22.1 million, or 53 cents a share, one year ago.
Revenue was $469.4 million, a drop of 3.3 percent from last year.
As of Thursday's market close, Finish Line shares have fallen more than 60 percent over the past 12 months.
Earlier this year, the retailer's stock plummeted after it trimmed its outlook for the full year amid disappointing sales volume.
Around that same time, the CEO of rival Dick's Sporting Goods said that his sector of retail was in "panic mode."
The remarks immediately sent shock waves across the broader sporting goods space.
Shares of other sporting goods stocks, including Under Armour, Nike, Foot Locker, Hibbett Sports and Big 5 Sporting Goods, have all taken hits over the past few weeks, as negative sentiment around the industry grows.
The threat of Amazon, which continues to make competitive price cuts and ink deals with certain athletic and apparel brands, remains on every company's mind.
We don't want a fat Europe, we want a fit Europe: FDP politician 2:54 AM ET Fri, 22 Sept 2017 | 03:15

Ahead of the German election this weekend, a politician told CNBC that the country wants a working Europe.
Otto Fricke, member of the federal executive board for Germany's Free Democratic Party laid out his party's vision for Europe in an interview with CNBC on Friday.
"We want a working Europe.
We don't want a fat Europe, we want a fit Europe that works," Fricke said, adding that at least in the next years it is important to have control.
He is concerned how Germany and Europe will prepare if and when things go bad in the future.
"Prepare means look at the future and look what's coming up."
To achieve a fit Europe, changes need to be made by individual countries and not at the EU level, Robin Bew, chief executive officer of The Economist Intelligence Unit told CNBC Friday.
"When we look around Europe and see where the fault lines are, most of the fault lines are around domestic policy  doing things to make your own country more competitive.
We think that's what would happen if you want to make Europe fit," Bew said.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:

T-Mobile  T-Mobile is close to agreeing to tentative terms on a deal to merge with its telecom peer, Sprint, Reuters reported on Friday.
Japan's SoftBank, which controls Sprint, would reportedly own between 40 to 50 percent of the combined company.
A deal is expected by the end of October, according to the sources who spoke to Reuters.
Apple  Apple's latest version of the iPhone, the iPhone 8, starts shipping on Friday.
While some product reviewers have said they love the device, others are telling shoppers to hold off for the iPhone X. Apple's iPhone 8, the cheapest phone announced at the company's event on Sept. 12, has a sticker price of $699, about $50 over the last generation of iPhones.
Facebook  Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said on Thursday that the social media company will share information with Congress about suspected Russian-linked election ads.
Earlier this month, Facebook released results of an investigation into the 2016 U.S. election.
The investigation found about $100,000 in ad spending from June 2015 to May 2017, associated with roughly 3,000 ads believed to be from Russian profiles.
Zuckerberg has said he instructed his staff to provide those ads to Congress.
Conagra  Orville Redenbacher's popcorn owner Conagra Brands is nearing a deal to buy Angie's Artisan treats, the maker of Angie's Boomchickapop popcorn.
The potential deal comes as sales of big food companies have slowed, with their staples being replaced by fresher, healthier brands.
Hewlett Packard  Hewlett Packard Enterprise is planning to cut at least 5,000 workers, or about 10 percent of its staff, by the end of this year, according to reports.
Most recently and under CEO Meg Whitman, the company has been streamlined, shedding much of its Chinese business and consulting division.
Tesla  Tesla will discontinue its cheapest Model S, the rear-wheel-drive 75, on Sunday.
The carmaker first announced in July that it would discontinue the rear-wheel model.
Tesla is shifting to an all-wheel-drive lineup for the Model S, to simplify its product offering.
Boeing  The trade dispute between Boeing and its Canadian rival, Bombardier, is heating up, with Boeing standing its ground.
The two are battling over a potential defense sale worth about $5 billion.
More details are slated to be revealed next week, when the U.S. Commerce Department issues its initial ruling on Sept. 26.
Wal-Mart  The big-box retailer has partnered with smart-lock maker August to test the in-home delivery of packages and groceries, directly to customers' refrigerators.
Wal-Mart is currently running a pilot of the service in Silicon Valley with a small group of August Home customers.
The move comes as retail rivals Amazon and Target are both beefing up their own delivery options for grocery items.
Finish Line  Shares of the athletic shoe and apparel retailer fell in premarket hours Friday, after Finish Line said comparable sales tumbled 4.5 percent during the second quarter.
Finish Line's net income fell to $2.8 million, or 7 cents per share, from $22.1 million, or 53 cents a share, a year ago.
London stripped Uber on Friday of its license to operate from the end of September in a huge blow to the taxi app that will affect more than 40,000 drivers in one of the world's biggest cities.
"Uber's approach and conduct demonstrate a lack of corporate responsibility in relation to a number of issues which have potential public safety and security implications," Transport for London (TfL) said.
The final day of Uber's license will be on Sep. 30.
Uber, which has the right to appeal the decision within 21 days.
It is unclear whether Uber will be able to operate in October whilst any appeal is being considered.
In London, Uber has faced criticism from unions, lawmakers and traditional black cab drivers over working conditions.
Uber, which accounts for a third of private hire vehicles on London's streets, said it would contest the decision.
Uber's London unit also launched a petition against the decision, saying that regulators were trying to "restrict consumer choice."
"We are sure Londoners will be as astounded as we are by this decision.
By trying to ban the app from the capital, the Mayor and Transport for London have caved in to a small number of people," Tom Elvidge, general manager of Uber in London, said in an emailed statement to customers in the U.K.



Globally, Uber has endured a tumultuous few months after a string of scandals involving allegations of sexism and bullying at the company, leading to investor pressure which forced out former CEO and co-founder Travis Kalanick.
The app has been forced to quit several countries including Denmark and Hungary and faced regulatory battles in multiple U.S. states and countries around the world.
Iran's president has promised to increase the country's military power and missile capability, days after the country's government was condemned by U.S. President Donald Trump.
"We will increase our military power as a deterrent.
We will strengthen our missile capabilities," President Hassan Rouhani said on Friday in a speech broadcast on state television.
"We will not seek permission from anyone to defend our country," Rouhani said according to Reuters.
Rouhani made the speech to a parade of the country's armed forces in the city of Tehran.
The speech has been seen as defiance to President Trump, who criticized Iran's leadership in a speech to the United Nations earlier this week.
U.K. fintech start-up Starling Bank  which operates solely on a mobile app  said it plans to raise 40 million ($54 million) from investors to drive expansion into markets beyond the U.K.
The London-based challenger bank doesn't have a single physical branch, and claims to be the first digital challenger of its kind to offer customers current accounts.
Challenger banks are smaller retail lenders that are set up with the aim of disrupting big, established financial institutions.
"As Starling Bank continues to grow, and our customer base expands every day, this funding will help us consolidate our current share of the market and drive our growth both in the U.K. and internationally," Starling's Chief Executive Anne Boden announced Friday.
Starling was given banking passport rights in neighboring country Ireland in June, in a move seen to mark its first expansion to a European Union country.
Capital raised by the fundraising round will allow the fintech bank to continue its growth across Europe, Starling said.
Its plan to raise the cash follows the bank's initial fundraising round in January last year, which raised 48 million ($65 million), and was led by American trader Harald McPike.
An additional $54 million would bring the bank's total investments up to $119 million.
Starling has hired mergers and acquisitions advice firm Quayle Munro to oversee the investment round.
It aims to raise the cash in the first half of 2018.
Source: First Insight

First Insight surveyed 750 participants in the U.S. on their shopping habits, purchase behavior, discount expectations and influences that drive purchase decisions.
Looking at geographies, one finding from the firm's data was that the Northeast region of the U.S. has seen the greatest "behavioral shift" between where the young and the old look for deals.
In the Northeast, 25 percent more millennials than baby boomers are visiting multiple stores to find bargains.
Along the West Coast, millennials are looking in stores and online about equally before making a purchase, the firm said.
And the Midwest shows the strongest shift by an older generation of shoppers searching for deals and ringing up items online.
"Baby boomers are technologically aware, while millennials are tech natives," Petro told CNBC in an interview.
Both categories of shoppers are looking at deals online today, but First Insight has found that "how they execute" is surprisingly different.
"Millennials are going out [for] the treasure hunting experience in stores," Petro added.
"Baby boomers  growing up  have already experienced this.
... Basically, what this suggests is not to ignore the store environment because millennials are still seeking it out."
To be sure, millennials  or those individuals between the ages of 18 and 35  represent a large percentage of the U.S. population.
And Generation Z is growing right behind them.
Heading into the holidays  the final period of the year when a majority of retail sales are made  it's key that consumer-facing companies have a plan in place to leverage both their store and online assets.
And especially a plan that will reach younger demographics.
"The store is still alive and well," RetailMeNot CMO Marissa Tarleton told CNBC.
"The majority of consumers say they still want to go into the store, and retailers are still seeing a lot of activity in stores."
In its annual holiday survey of retailers' and consumers' sentiment around the season, RetailMeNot found that Americans plan to spend an average of $743 during the Black Friday to Cyber Monday weekend, up 47 percent from last year's average of $505.
Forty-five percent of Americans plan to start shopping before Nov. 1, according to RetailMeNot.
Tarleton's recommendation for retailers would be to capitalize on the brick-and-mortar store as a "benefit," by incorporating personalized experiences, and to ramp up mobile marketing efforts quickly.
JPMorgan Chase Chief Executive Jamie Dimon has laid into bitcoin and digital currencies once again, warning that governments will shut them down if they grow too large.
"Right now these crypto things are kind of a novelty.
People think they're kind of neat.
But the bigger they get, the more governments are going to close them down," Dimon said during an interview with CNBC-TV18 in New Delhi on Friday.
Dimon was concerned that with bitcoin, ethereum and various initial coin offerings (ICOs), there are now cryptocurrencies everywhere.
"It's creating something out of nothing that to me is worth nothing," he said.
"It will end badly."
Dimon warned that governments will eventually crack down on cryptocurrencies and will attempt to control it by threatening anyone who buys or sells bitcoin with imprisonment, which would force digital currencies into becoming a black market.
These are the latest comments from Dimon attacking bitcoin.
Earlier this month he called the cryptocurrency a "fraud.".
His comments, along with several prominent hedge fund investors, came before a sharp sell-off in bitcoin.
The price for one bitcoin fell from around $4,340 to as low as $2,981.05 in the days after his comments.
Bitcoin has since recovered to around $3,640.68, according to CoinDesk data.
Despite this volatility, bitcoin's value has risen 264 percent this year.
Dimon's comments came under criticism from several bitcoin investors and experts.
"Comments like Jamie's show a failure to grasp the significance of the blockchain and the power of brand in a fundamental sea of change," said Scott Nelson, chairman and CEO of blockchain firm Sweetbridge, in an email to CNBC last week.
Meanwhile, a company called Blockswater has filed a market abuse complaint in Sweden against Dimon and JPMorgan.
Blockswater claims Dimon deliberately spread false and misleading information, according to a report by City A.M. JPMorgan Chase declined to comment, the report said.
Lawmakers are formulating "meaningless" green vehicle regulations, according to Andy Palmer, CEO of British luxury car manufacturer Aston Martin.
He said authorities were committing a fundamental misstep by stipulating what technologies should be adopted, referring to Britain's July announcement that it would ban the sale of new petrol and diesel cars by 2040.
The regulation was aimed at reducing air pollution.
"Policy makers should not try to be engineers," Palmer quipped, adding that the announcement was "just spin" without any practical meaning.
"In my view as an engineer, it's better to prescribe the emission, and then let the engineers figure out what the right technology is," he said.
According to Palmer, the danger in the car ban lies in authorities' lack of knowledge about which engineering solutions best suit their objectives.
By refining existing technology, gasoline cars can almost double their fuel economy  a feat that is already a reality with Formula 1 speeders, which put 50 percent of the energy produced into moving the car, the CEO said.
That improvement, if applied to internal-combustion-engine passenger vehicles, would mean an almost 50 percent cut in carbon emissions for a given mileage.
In contrast, "if you take today's engine and you simply slap a hybrid on, you end up more or less in the same place," he said.
Orville Redenbacher's popcorn owner Conagra Brands is nearing a deal to buy Angie's Artisan treats, maker of Angie's Boomchickapop popcorn, sources familiar with the matter said on Thursday.
The potential deal comes as sales of big food companies have slowed, with their staples replaced by upstart  often healthier or fresher  brands.
The people cautioned the deal is not yet final and could still fall apart.
Conagra and Angie's did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
Angie's private equity owner TPG Growth declined to comment.
For Chicago, Illinois-based Conagra, the acquisition would be another step in its efforts to bolster and modernize its portfolio of brands, which also includes Hebrew National franks and Reddi-wip whipped cream.
Conagra has been focused on growing and honing its branded business since shedding its private label segment for $2.7 billion in 2016.
It acquired Frontera Foods in 2016 and Duke's meat snacks' parent company earlier this year.
It also sold its Wesson oil business.
The potential deal comes in the wake of other Big Food acquisitions of smaller brands, including Hershey's purchase of Krave meat jerky in 2015 and Mondelez's acquisition of Enjoy Life Foods the same year.
Angie's began 16 years ago as Angie's Kettle Corn, which founders Angie Bastian and her husband Dan started in their Mankato, Minnesota, garage.
They later renamed the company to reflect its broadening product assortment, but kept the name "Angie's" to distinguish from the many popcorn brands named for men: Orville, Cracker Jack and Vic's.
The popcorn, which is packaged in brightly colored pastel bags, comes in flavors such as sweet and salty kettle corn and dill.
The company was acquired by private equity firm TPG Growth in 2014.
Snacks have been a pocket of growth for the food industry, as consumers increasingly prefer their food on-the-go.
Among snacks, salty bites such as popcorn and chips reign supreme.
Salty snacks generated $27 billion in sales across U.S. retail stores in the twelve months ended April 1, 2017, according to data service Nielsen.
That is more than the $21 billion spent on candy, $17 billion on cheese and $7 billion on cookies.
Still, popcorn brands have ebbed and flowed in popularity over the past several years.
Skinny Pop parent Amplify Snack Brands, which went public in 2015 amid a craze for its sunflower oil coated kernels, has seen its stock more than halve since its IPO.
General Mills, the U.S.-based maker of multi-colored kids' cereal Trix, said it will bring back the original, artificially-colored version after customers complained.
"Classic Trix," which is colored artificially, will sit on store shelves alongside the new, natural-flavor version, the company said.
General Mills introduced the natural-flavor version last year, replacing artificial colors and flavors with coloring made from radishes, purple carrots and turmeric.
But customers have complained, with one reportedly calling the new product "basically a salad," the Wall Street Journal reported on Thursday.
Another said she liked the way the artificial colors and high-fructose corn syrup look and taste, the report said.
A General Mills spokesperson told CNBC that the new product will remain on the shelves as it "has its own fan base."
Tesla will discontinue its cheapest Model S, the rear-wheel-drive 75, on Sunday, Tesla has confirmed to CNBC.
Tesla first announced in July that it would discontinue the rear-wheel model.
The company is shifting to an all-wheel-drive lineup for the Model S to simplify its product offering.
The Model S rear-wheel version started at just over $70,000.
Prior to the release of the Model 3, this would have been considered Tesla's entry-level sedan.
Meanwhile, the initial batches of the Model 3 will boast rear-wheel drive.
CEO Elon Musk has said he expects to offer an all-wheel-drive version in the future.
Musk had said there was some customer confusion that the Model 3 was an improvement over the Model S, when in fact the Model 3 is simply a less expensive and entirely different car altogether.
Tesla has discontinued other battery options for its cars before.
Electreck reported in July the car would be discontinued, and Business Insider reported on the timeline earlier today.
CNBC's Robert Ferris contributed to this report.
Halloween spending should hit a record this year.
Total amount spent around the spooky season is forecast to reach a new high of $9.1 billion, with 179 million Americans planning to partake in Halloween festivities, up from 171 million in 2016, according to the National Retail Federation.
In 2016, total spending hit $8.4 billion, another record at the time.
Consumers are expected to spend an average of $86.1 each for Halloween, compared with last year's $82.93.
And shoppers plan to spend the most, or $3.4 billion, on costumes; $2.7 billion on candy; about $2.7 billion on decorations; and $410 million on Halloween-related greeting cards, NRF said.
In search of Halloween-related goods, 47 percent of shoppers told NRF they will visit discount stores, while 38 percent said they will go to a specialty shop.
Twenty-five percent of shoppers surveyed said they will visit supermarkets, 24 percent plan to go to department stores, and 22 percent are looking online for deals.
"Halloween continues to be a highly anticipated holiday for Americans, who will spend a record amount this year with increases across all purchasing categories," said Pam Goodfellow, an analyst with Prosper Insights.
"Expect consumers to be on the lookout for early-bird promotions both online and in-store as they hunt for the best items to complete their costumes and embellish their homes," she added.
NRF, in a partnership with Prosper Insights, surveyed 7,013 consumers about their Halloween shopping plans.
The survey also found that a record number of adults, or 48 percent, plan to dress in a costume this year.
Witches, Batman characters and animals were some of the most popular choices.
The top costume for children is expected to be a superhero, and for pets, a pumpkin or a hot dog.
Record spending expected around Halloween and ahead of the holidays could bode well this year for retailers, which are hoping to bounce back from a slow start.
Looking to grab a share of shoppers' dollars, Amazon has already rolled out its own Halloween Shop on its website.
Amazon is bringing 2,000 jobs in advertising, fashion to New York City 12:50 PM ET Thu, 21 Sept 2017 | 00:46

Amazon is growing in New York City.
The internet giant announced Thursday that it plans to bring more than 2,000 jobs to the city over the next three years, promising to create roughly 6,000 jobs across New York state by 2019.
Next year, Amazon will open a new office in Manhattan, which will be located aside the giant Hudson Yards development project.
The company said this is all part of its "ongoing job creation efforts."
Amazon will take 360,000 square feet of space at Brookfield's 5 Manhattan West.
In March, organic grocer Whole Foods Market  which is now owned by Amazon  announced it would anchor the ground-level retail space of 5 Manhattan West.
Brookfield also recently worked on the location for Amazon's new European headquarters in the U.K., at Principal Place.
Once in New York City, Amazon plans to house its advertising team there, which focuses on marketing, product, design and engineering.
Full-time positions are also up for grabs to work for Amazon Web Services and Amazon Fashion, the company said.
"We're excited to expand our presence in New York  we have always found great talent here," added Paul Kotas, Amazon's senior vice president of worldwide advertising.
Meantime, Amazon is in the midst of scouting a location for its second headquarters  a search that the company announced earlier this month.
A spokesperson for New York City mayor's office had told CNBC: "New York City has the most innovative and diverse tech sector in the nation.
... We are very interested in the possibility of Amazon locating a headquarters in the five boroughs, and believe the city's competitive advantages position it well."
On Thursday, a source familiar with Amazon's plans said that the 2,000 jobs coming to New York were decided upon prior to Amazon's HQ2 announcement, and shouldn't be seen as any kind of endorsement for New York City in that search.
Amazon is also planning to open a fulfillment center in Staten Island.
It currently houses a Fashion photo studio in Brooklyn, along with two Amazon Books locations in New York City.
CNBC's Deirdre Bosa contributed to this report.
Prime Minister Theresa May will say on Friday Britain is willing to pay 20 billion euros ($24 billion) to the European Union during a post-Brexit transition period, but only if it has access to the bloc's single market, the BBC's political editor reported.
May, who is weakened after losing her party's majority in a June election, is due to make a speech in Italy setting out her vision for future ties with the Earlier on Thursday she briefed her top ministers on the speech.
"UK willing to pay 20 billion euros during transition period but only if we have access to single market and some form of customs union," Laura Kuenssberg said on Twitter, citing a government source.
She added that this would not cover long term liabilities, so the eventual total bill for leaving the bloc could be far higher.
Attorneys general from across the country have begun to file lawsuits that blame the opioid crisis on large drug manufacturers.
Missouri AG Josh Hawley argued that his state's epidemic is the "direct result of a carefully crafted campaign of deception carried out by [the pharmaceutical companies]."
Ohio AG Mike DeWine accused the industry of "unleashing a health-care crisis" and "fueling Ohio's opioid epidemic."
Oklahoma AG Mike Hunter said that drug "companies are culpable for the tragic, heartbreaking number of Oklahomans who have become addicted or who have died as a result of the opioid epidemic in our state."
As a doctor who is board-certified in addiction medicine and spent eight years treating the casualties of the opioid epidemic, I know firsthand that the causes of the crisis are much more complicated than Hawley, Dewine, Hunter, and their fellow attorneys general would have you believe.
Mere corporate deceit didn't precipitate the epidemic.
It was, rather, the result of a perfect storm of other factors: lax health-industry accreditation standards, the treatment of pain as a "fifth vital sign," the practices of insurance companies, and the transformation of our health-care system into what is essentially an assembly line.
THE JOINT COMMISSION

The Joint Commission is an independent board that accredits and certifies nearly 21,000 health-care organizations.
When the commission says "Jump!"
hospital administrators ask, "How high?"
In 2001, the commission published its Pain Management Standards, which required providers to ask every patient about his pain.
The consensus at the time was that doctors were doing too little to treat patient pain.
Since that time, opioid prescriptions have surged, helping to create the current crisis.
More from National Review:

Eric Schneiderman needs to recuse himself from Trump investigations

Another chance on health care

A Donald Trump speech, a Barack Obama foreign policy

Unfortunately, the Joint Commission has refused to acknowledge any responsibility for encouraging doctors to prescribe more opiates.
The Physicians for Responsible Opioid Prescribing (PROP), an education and advocacy organization, requested that the Joint Commission change its pain standards.
PROP argued that the "Pain Management Standards foster dangerous pain control practices, the endpoint of which is often the inappropriate provision of opioids with disastrous adverse consequences for individuals, families and communities."
The commission instead disavowed any link between its Pain Management Standards and opioid overprescribing.
UP NEXT See which countries clicked on ISIS propaganda the most



This is unfortunate, because just as the Pain Management Standards have contributed to the opioid crisis, new commission policies could become part of the solution.
Instead of requiring providers to treat their patients' pain more aggressively, they could require the aggressive provision of alternatives to pain pills, and hospitals would be forced to comply.
THE FIFTH VITAL SIGN

In 1996, the American Pain Society designated pain as the fifth "vital sign" that doctors should use to detect or monitor medical problems.
Doctors don't test or measure anything without intent to treat, and so making patient pain the fifth vital sign obligated them to address it.
Pain control thus effectively became a measure of patient satisfaction, which is sometimes tied to a physician's compensation.
Yet aggressively treating pain does not invariably result in good medical care.
The other four vital signs  blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, and temperature  can be measured in reproducible numbers.
Pain cannot, which means that doctors have only their patients' often-unreliable perceptions to go on when determining its severity and how to treat it.
Yet aggressively treating pain does not invariably result in good medical care.
The other four vital signs  blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, and temperature  can be measured in reproducible numbers.
Pain cannot, which means that doctors have only their patients' often-unreliable perceptions to go on when determining its severity and how to treat it.
In recent years, the American Medical Association and others have started to recommend dropping pain as the fifth vital sign.
That would be a helpful first step, but I'm afraid much of the damage is already done.
Categorizing pain as the fifth vital sign conditioned patients to expect that providers would "normalize" it in the same way that they normalize the other four vital signs.
They have, in other words, come to expect an opioid prescription.
State licensing boards already require doctors to obtain a certain number of hours of continuing education each year.
If medical licensing boards started mandating pain-management courses as part of those hours, doctors could better serve their patients by recommending non-opioid treatment options for pain.
State licensing boards already require doctors to obtain a certain number of hours of continuing education each year.
If medical licensing boards started mandating pain-management courses as part of those hours, doctors could better serve their patients by recommending non-opioid treatment options for pain.
INSURANCE COMPANIES

While pain specialists advocate using alternative treatments (steroid injections, spinal blocks, or physical therapy) to address chronic pain, primary-care doctors have been treating the problem with opioids.
Insurance companies pay for primary-care office visits and for the patient's pain-pill prescription, but they may not cover specialist visits or alternative treatments.
Faced with an out-of-pocket charge they can't afford, patients may have to chose between living in pain or taking the opioids their doctor offers.
Understandably, many patients choose the latter, exposing them to a plethora of side effects and the risk of addiction.
Assigning social workers to direct patients to addiction-medicine providers in their area, improving reimbursement for primary-care providers treating addictions, and including coverage for alternative treatments would all improve patient care and decrease costs.
THE BUSINESS OF MEDICINE

As larger medical centers gobbled up private practices, doctors lost control of their autonomy as well as their appointment books.
Today, employed doctors are paid based on the number of patients they see in a day and the medical conditions they see those patients for.
Stanford addiction specialist Anna Lembke, the author of Drug Dealer, MD, describes this process as "the Toyotazation of medicine."
A patient's time spent with their doctor has become as much about meeting production quotas as about patient care.
The incorporation of the electronic medical record has become a significant factor in this production process.
Studies have shown that physicians now spend 37 percent of each patient's appointment time just documenting the visit.
I once saw a patient in the E.R.
who came to be treated for hiccups.
It took 137 clicks of my computer mouse before I'd satisfied that patient's encounter-documentation requirements.
Medicare should consider reducing such unreasonable and burdensome requirements.
Doctors need more face-to-face time with their patients.
OTHER CONTRIBUTING FACTORS

There's plenty of blame to go around when it comes to America's opioid epidemic.
More than 30 percent of Americans have some form of chronic or acute pain, and the incidence of chronic pain in older adults has been estimated at 40 percent.
In the absence of an accepted consensus around how to best manage pain, opioids became the go-to treatment.
The genetic and environmental factors that place certain populations at greater risk for prescription-drug dependency  combined with the fact that half of the 20 million adults in the U.S. who experience a substance-abuse disorder have co-occurring mental illness  have made the resulting spike in opioid addiction that much harder to address.
Big Pharma may certainly have contributed to the crisis, too.
But it is a calculated overreach to suggest that the industry's "campaign of deception" is solely to blame.
We all bear collective responsibility for the problem, and we will all need to bear collective responsibility for solving it.
Once you've sailed into a storm, you need all hands on deck to get through it.
Commentary by Glenn W. Simon D.O., is a primary-care provider at the Kansas City Veterans Administration and a fellow of the American Board of Addiction Medicine.
For more insight from CNBC contributors, follow @CNBCopinion on Twitter.
2017 National Review.
Used with permission.
Sigmar Gabriel came to talk about social justice, but the crowd in Halle, one of the most economically hard hit towns in eastern Germany, angrily confronted the country's foreign minister about 20 women who had allegedly been raped by immigrants.
Caught off guard, Mr. Gabriel tried valiantly to defend immigrants, saying "in Germany a rapist is brought to justice and if necessary imprisoned, no matter whether he is a foreigner or a German."
But the mood of the crowd was angry, despite the country's record low unemployment, just like many voters in France, Britain and the United States.
In a nutshell, the incident illustrated why Germany's Social Democratic party is sinking in the polls five days before federal elections for a new parliament.
Once the powerful party of the working class, the center-left SPD finds itself, much like the Democratic party in the United States last year, struggling to find a constituency in the midst of a populist revolt.
Mr. Gabriel, at least, has shown a knack for fighting back.
Like America's Democrats, who chose Hillary Clinton as their candidate because they thought she would be more electable than a socialist like Bernie Sanders, many in the SPD now wonder if they made the wrong choice in anointing Martin Schulz as their chancellor candidate over Mr. Gabriel.
More from Handelsblatt Global:

Enough Military, More Aid

Gaining Strength on Germany's Hard Right

Why the Social Democrats Have a Proud Past and Uncertain Future

The far right and anti-immigrant Alternative for Germany has gained popularity at the SPD's expense and, if current opinon polls are to be believed, is on track to become Germany's third largest party.
The fact is, as Josef Joffe, editor of the weekly Die Zeit pointed out, like the rest of Europe, the industrial workers who once formed the base for the SPD are no more than 20 percent of the population.
The SPD's current standing in the polls is about the same  22 percent.
"No socialist party has managed to harness a winning coalition among the new rising classes in the service and knowledge sectors," Mr. Joffe wrote in a recent editorial.
"And they have no idea how to deal with the populist revolt."
Ford designers are using 3-D goggles in order to virtually imagine an entire car in the middle of the factory floor.
The U.S. automotive giant announced Thursday it hopes by expanding testing of the Microsoft HoloLens headset, it can help improve global collaboration and speed up product development cycles.
Ford claimed the goggles could help to radically improve the firm's efficiency as designers in different offices around the world would all be able to work on the same virtual car at the same time.
The mixed reality wireless headset gives designers the option to see digital designs and parts as if they were superimposed on to a physical automobile.
Ford said this function could allow designers to explore different shapes, sizes and textures of vehicle attributes in seconds and minutes  rather than weeks and months.
Ryanair's decision to cancel around 2,000 flights due to staffing issues was the right operational decision but the issue was badly handled, the airline's chief executive admitted at its annual general meeting on Thursday.
Since Saturday, the airline was forced to cancel thousands of flights between September 16 and the end of October as many of its pilots were taking annual leave, meaning there were not sufficient staff members to be on standby in case of unforeseen issues, according to CEO Michael O'Leary.
To alleviate the problem, pilots have been offered a bonus of 12,000 euros ($14,282) to work an 10 additional days, according to Reuters.
Ryanair has also recruited 125 pilots in the past two weeks.
"There won't be more cancellations because of the rostering issues," O'Leary told the meeting, according to Reuters.
However, there are reports that some of the pilots have rejected the bonus.
This indicates that there are no quick fixes to solve this issue, warned Chris McCullough, CEO and co-founder at Rotageek.
"Employees can be a company's biggest asset in a crisis  but only if a good work culture has been fostered way before things go wrong.
This problem isn't unique to Ryanair, and the airline industry needs to work together to tackle it.
That starts with better scheduling and a change in how management work with staff," he told CNBC via email.
"The right solution won't just help management, it will also benefit employees.
Smart scheduling can help employees have real input into their own schedules, with the ability to mark their preferences and availability."
A major problem for bitcoin is its extreme volatility, which is a cause of concern for many investors.
A lack of liquidity may be to blame for the cryptocurrency's volatile nature, an expert tells CNBC.
"The high volatility I think is due to the low liquidity we have on exchanges today," Cedric Jeanson, CEO of BitSpread, told CNBC's Street Signs on Thursday.
Bitcoin has attracted a lot of criticism in recent weeks from big names including JPMorgan's Jamie Dimon and Bridgewater Associates founder Ray Dalio.
A common criticism is that bitcoin is too volatile to be an effective store of wealth, unlike gold.
The digital currency is currently trading at $3,883.76 per bitcoin.
Year to date its value has risen by 289 percent, according to data on CoinDesk, but bitcoin also fell from a record high of around $4,991 at the start of September to as low as $2,989 by the middle of the month.
That's a loss of 40 percent over less than two weeks.
Jeanson suggests that having more market makers, such as his company, can help to improve this liquidity problem.
"The important thing is to add market makers on these exchanges and have the appropriate rules, (such as) anti-money laundering and Know Your Customer, around those exchanges," he said.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:

Google: Alphabet subsidiary Google announced late Wednesday that it signed a $1.1 billion cooperation agreement with Taiwanese smartphone maker HTC to bolster its smartphone and emerging hardware business.
Under the agreement, Google will acquire a team of HTC employees, many of whom have worked with the company on its Pixel smartphone.
As part of the transaction, HTC will receive $1.1 billion in cash.
Equifax: Consumers are learning that some of them were misdirected to a phishing website by Equifax itself, according to various published reports.
The company has said data on 143 million U.S. customers was obtained in a recent breach.
Personal data, including birth dates, credit card numbers and more, were also exposed.
Apple: The iPhone maker is being scrutinized for its upcoming launch of the Apple Watch Series 3, which reportedly has an issue that could prevent the device from placing and receiving phone calls and text messages.
Apple has told media that a fix is coming.
The watch is slated to begin shipping to customers on Friday.
Amazon: The internet giant may be increasingly holding conversations with pharmacy benefits managers (PBMs), which play a critical role within the drug supply chain.
They negotiate prices with drug manufacturers on one end, and manage pharmacy benefits for insurers on the other.
CNBC reported earlier this year that Amazon was looking to hire a general manager to lead its pharmacy business.
Tesla: Tesla is reportedly working with AMD to develop its own A.I.
chip for self-driving cars.
Sources have told CNBC that the carmaker has received back samples of the first implementation of its processor and is now running tests on it.
AMD shares spiked Wednesday on the news.
FedEx: FedEx is in the news for carrying tons of food, mainly barbecue, to Hurricane Irma victims across Florida.
In a company blog post, FedEx called the mission Operation BBQ Relief.
Blue Apron: Shares of the meal-kit company were trading slightly higher in premarket hours Thursday, after grocery chain Albertsons announced it would acquire meal-kit company Plated.
Amazon, which had experimented with meal kits prior to its Whole Foods acquisition, put meal-kit companies on alert earlier this summer when it registered a U.S. trademark for a service described as: "We do the prep.
You be the chef."
General Mills: General Mills' earnings miss on Wednesday prompted a selloff that dragged down multiple food stocks to their lowest in more than a year.
The moves offer further evidence that packaged food companies are struggling to keep up with changing consumer tastes and preferences.
BlackBerry: Auto suppliers Delphi Automotive and BlackBerry will partner on a software operating system for self-driving cars.
BlackBerry has said its operating system would help guard against cyber attacks, malware and system malfunctions; its shares traded higher Wednesday on the news.
Start-up accelerator Y Combinator plans to roll out its initial cash handout trial to thousands of people across two U.S. states.
Its President Sam Altman has been one of many top Silicon Valley bosses to get behind the idea of basic income  the idea that all citizens should be paid a regular sum of money regardless of their employment status.
The incubator has already piloted a study of the effects of introducing a basic income.
It gave cash handouts to residents of Oakland, California, to test how money would affect individuals' behavior.
Y Combinator's Basic Income Project will select 3,000 individuals from two U.S. states at random to compare how one group of people who receive a basic income will behave as opposed to another sample who do not.
Out of those 3,000, 1,000 will receive $1,000 per month for up to five years, while 2,000 will receive $50 a month for comparison.
Map courtesy of Stratfor.
President Xi Jinping's administration's use of military retaliation is "a worrying escalation" and could result in further pressure on future business dealings, said Hugo Brennan, Asia analyst at Verisk Maplecroft, in a Wednesday note.
Companies that have interests or operations in blocks licensed by Southeast Asian governments but located within China-claimed waters are likely to face pressure from Beijing, according to Brennan.
There are many overlapping claims in the region.
China relies on a concept known as the nine-dash line to mark its territorial claims  a massive area that extends roughly 1,000 miles from its southern shores  in the South China Sea.
But Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan also assert sovereign rights over parts of the international waterway, which is rich in resources and boasts key maritime routes.
Against that backdrop, firms licensed by other countries to operate in disputed ares will face Chinese protestations.
Any company ignoring those would likely face consequences such as on-site harassment, de facto exclusion from the Chinese market and even implicit threats to company staff and assets, Brennan said.
BP experienced the latter option in 2007, he added.
"Operators also have to analyse the resolve of Southeast Asian governments to stand up to China.
Otherwise, companies with rights to develop blocks or fields in contested waters may find that they are prevented from exercising them as host government become wary of rocking the boat."
The next potential flash-point could be Vietnam's Red Emperor oil and gas field, also called Ca Rong Do.
Repsol is active in the project, which is located within China's nine-dash line, and drilling is slated for 2019.
But in light of Chinese threats, it remains to be seen how much progress the Madrid-based firm will make, Brennan said.
A man who worked as a baggage handler at Singapore's Changi Airport swapped tags on hundreds of bags, sending the luggage to the wrong destinations, the Straits Times newspaper reported.
Tay Boon Keh, a 63 year-old working as a baggage handler for a sub-contractor of the Changi Airport Group, was charged in court on Tuesday with 286 counts of mischief, the newspaper said.
He did not explain his actions, but intends to plead guilty, it said.
The next hearing is on Oct 17, when, if convicted, he can be jailed for up to one year and fined for each charge.
Luggage originally bound for various parts of the world, including Perth, Manila, Frankfurt, London and San Francisco, was affected, according to court documents.
Tay is believed to have changed baggage tags almost every day from November until February, they said.
An airport spokesman said there was no breach of security.
Nearly 59 million passengers used Changi Airport in 2016.
The world's sixth busiest airport for international traffic, it flies passengers to 380 cities on over 100 airlines and was voted the world's best airport in 2017 by the Skytrax air travel consultancy.
It handles about 70,000 bags per day, according to the Changi Airport Group website.
Equifax said on Wednesday that on March 10 an attacker "interacted" with a server at the heart of the massive breach disclosed this month, but there is no evidence that the incident was linked to the breach of 143 million records.
The company disclosed the incident after the Wall Street Journal reported details of a report from FireEye investigators hired by Equifax, which disclosed the March compromise of the server used to run a consumer dispute portal.
You can stroll down a dusty track and stand on the first tee box at Fort Brown Memorial Golf Course, where golfers fired drives on the same strip that 19th-century soldiers exchanged cannon fire.
The view is a bit different these days though.
Weeds and shoulder-high grass grow unimpeded on the once-pristine fairways.
To your left is a fence designed to keep illegal immigrants out of the United States, manned by patrol agents.
It remains to be seen whether President Trump will be successful in delivering on his campaign promise to build a wall between the U.S. and Mexico, but such a barrier has already made this historic golf course in Texas' deepest south unworkable and doomed.
More from USA Today:

Facebook finds Russian ads that sought to sow division during U.S. election

Election hacking suit over Georgia race could be sign of what's to come

'U.S.
spies slept' while Russia elected Trump, Russian politician says

The imposing 18-foot fence, built as part of the Secure Fence Act passed in 2006, is made of iron columns.
It is situated within the U.S. and near the border that runs along the Rio Grande.
The golf course is stuck between the two.
"I had a business, the community had a place people could meet and socialize and enjoy life, and golf had an affordable spot," Bob Lucio, the course's former owner, told USA TODAY Sports as he walked along an overgrown path and remembered what once was.
"Now it is like it never even existed."
It did exist for more than 50 years but was stuck in what is quite literally a no man's land for nearly a decade before going out of business in 2015.
The fence couldn't be built in the middle of the Rio Grande, and Mexico had no reason to take it on its side the border.
Lucio's property butted up against the river.
If there was going to be a fence, his course was going to end up behind it.
And that's exactly what happened.
"The government did what they did  they forced it on everybody," Lucio said.
"In 2009 they actually started building the fence.
It hurt our business right away.
We slowly started to lose our membership.
"People would say, 'We don't know what they are going to do with the fence.'
I don't blame them for that.
I wouldn't want to pay for advance (membership) for maybe a place where you may not have access to it."
Fort Brown was taken over by Lucio in 1987.
The site was a cut-price alternative to the nearby country club set.
High school teams played there.
Locals remember it as a deceptive challenge.
Lucio upgraded, put in a new clubhouse and spent hundreds of thousands in renovations.
But when the fence came in, it was a deterrent.
Patrons had to drive through a gap in the fence to reach the clubhouse, and when they did, in 2011 at least, they could sometimes hear gunfire from a drug cartel turf war raging on the Matamoros side.
"I didn't know what war sounded like.
I never went to war," former member Bob Prepejchal said, remembering a wild Thursday afternoon when a peaceful round was interrupted by sounds of carnage.
"When the (Mexican military) helicopters (were) flying and hovering over and let go of these rockets, it was unbelievable what it sounded like.
Then there are those electronic Gatling guns  they were just raining down shells like crazy, and it went on for a while."
Typically, when shots were fired, American border agents collected not near the actual border but at the fence line.
As far as Lucio and most of the course visitors were concerned, that was a clear indication that if you played at Fort Brown, the government considered you to be inside the U.S. but outside of its protection.
Insurance premiums skyrocketed.
And people just stopped coming.
By the end of 2015, Lucio had filed for Chapter 13 bankruptcy.
Much of the golf business in this area has always come from "Winter Texans," visitors from chillier climes who would come chasing reasonably priced rounds and warmer weather.
For the most part, they wanted no part of Fort Brown once the difficulties kicked in.
"It is pretty sad," said Celso Medina, who runs Golf Headquarters, an impressive golf store in Brownsville.
"It's a personal thing, (it was) one of my favorite golf courses.
That's where I really learned to play the game actually.
"(It was) very affordable mostly for the average person that couldn't afford to play at a country club.
It really hurt."
Lucio gets emotional when he sees the site now.
Like Medina and Prepejchal, he remembers fun nights with the guys, when dozens of players would sit and barbecue and knock back beers hours after darkness called a halt to play.
No longer.
It has taken just a few years for derelict course equipment to get swallowed by nature.
A large pond that once needed to be avoided by players is now dry, with the balls of so many errant shots wedged in the dried mud.
Lucio tried to disguise the fence by putting up a course sign on it, tried to make it look like an entrance and not a stark reminder of political divisions.
Perception is king, though, and it didn't have much impact.
Yet here is the puzzling thing about the course and the border and just the odd nature of the U.S. and its interactions with Mexico.
You can easily get onto the course from Mexico by crossing the river.
The river is less than 50 feet across in some spots, and the water is usually slow moving.
The fence is there, but there is a gap in it you can drive through.
At times the border agents are there, at others they are not, either patrolling the scrubland or just off duty.
At those unattended moments, anyone can just walk through and be on the streets of Brownsville within a minute or so.
As Bob Lucio moves through it, he first takes a look back, then across to the fence.
He gives a deep sigh and a small shake of his head.
"I don't get it," he said.
"I didn't get it then, and I still don't.
I have lived here all my life, and we used to celebrate our joint history with Mexico.
When I put my time into the course, it was because I thought I'd be here forever."
He moves away sadly, both he, his course and its patrons victims of a political conundrum that's no nearer to being solved.
FedEx's CEO had an undaunted response when asked on a call with analysts and investors about how Amazon's purchase of Whole Foods Markets may disrupt retailers and the courier business.
"E-commerce is not going to eliminate the retailing sector of the country," FedEx CEO Fred Smith said Tuesday.
"It's about 10 percent now.
It's certainly going to grow as a percentage.
But will it be half?
I doubt it."
E-commerce represented a little more than 8 percent of total U.S. retail sales through the first three quarters of 2016, according to data from Nielsen.
The firm has projected that rate will grow by as much as 12.2 percent through 2020.
Deloitte is expecting total retail sales this holiday season to grow by as much as 4.5 percent, up from last year's 3.6 percent increase.
E-commerce sales are expected to climb 18 to 21 percent this year, with more shoppers ringing up gifts online.
"I think you're going to see e-tailers become more brick-and-mortar," Smith added.
"And I think you're going to see brick-and-mortar become more e-tailers.
And how that all shakes out, I don't know."
In buying Whole Foods, Amazon wanted to get into the grocery business, but not with the goal of becoming a business courier, Smith said.
"Groceries are heavy, hard to handle, people like to come and see the produce and so forth," he said.
During the call, FedEx's chief marketing and communications officer, Rajesh Subramaniam, added: "More and more retailers are evolving their business model to compete with pure-play e-tailers, and we see this as an opportunity to provide even better value for our customers  whether it's fulfilling from store or a [distribution center]."
FedEx's share price was up 3 percent Wednesday.
After Tuesday's closing bell, FedEx lowered its 2018 earnings outlook to account for the impact of the TNT Express cyberattack in June and said Hurricane Harvey also negatively impacted its fiscal first-quarter results.
FedEx shares have climbed more than 17 percent in 2017, and are up more than 30 percent over the past 12 months.
Rival UPS' shares are up about 2 percent this year.
But this strategy means that Equifax is entrenched in consumers financial lives whether they like it or not  or even know it.
Equifaxs approach amplified the consequences of the breach, reported this month, that exposed the personal information for up to 143 million people.
Ordinary people are not Equifaxs customers.
They are the companys product.
The Big Three credit bureaus, Equifax, Experian and TransUnion, collect 4.5 billion pieces of data each month to feed into their credit reports.
From birth to death, the record grows.
Decades worth of addresses and identifying information, including drivers licenses and Social Security numbers.
Utility accounts like telephone and cable subscriptions.
Criminal records, medical debt, as well as rental and eviction histories.
Equifaxs records on any given individual, scattered throughout dozens of databases, typically stretch across hundreds or thousands of pages.
Equifax now faces a consumer backlash over its response to the hacking attack.
The anger has been intensified by the actions of three senior executives who sold shares worth $1.8 million in the days after the breach was discovered.
The stock, which had tripled in the last five years, is down 30 percent since the attack.
Equifax said the executives were unaware of the breach when they sold their stock.
Customers have been less vocal, given their dependency on the bureaus.
Financial firms readily hand over their data because they rely on the credit reports  and the scores they are used to generate  to size up potential customers.
The data, over which Equifax and the other bureaus have a stranglehold, is one of the best predictors of risk.
We dont really have a choice to opt out of the credit report system, said Pete Mills, senior vice president of residential policy at the Mortgage Bankers Association, which represents some of Equifaxs biggest clients, home loan providers.
We spend a lot of money trying to protect our customers, and then we give that data to others, like the credit bureaus.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Equifax said it was supporting customers who may have been affected by the data breach.
We value our customers and have been in close communication with them, said Wyatt Jefferies, a company spokesman.
Under Mr. Smith, Equifax has been creative in developing new markets and services.
The company expanded globally, often by acquiring local competitors; it now operates in 24 countries.
New analytic products have been a priority.
Equifax has a team of mathematicians who mine its data to develop algorithms predicting how consumers will behave.
Those insights are sold to companies like lenders.
At a financial conference last year, Mr. Smith described a new system that searched four billion public tweets for keywords like car and automotive lease.
It paired the tweets with a persons Equifax credit file.
In real time, the credit bureau could identify potential buyers and provide its customer, a company selling car leases, with everything it wanted to know about those people.
The corporate culture shifted under Mr. Smith and became more focused on increasing profit, said David Galas, who left Equifax in 2011 after 13 years.
It was run a little more like a sports team, said Mr. Galas, who served most recently as a vice president.
You immediately had to get out there and perform, and if you didnt perform, you were cut.
Equifaxs roots as a behind-the-scenes data collector stretch back to 1899, when it began as the Retail Credit Company.
Grocers and other retailers kept notes on their customers to determine who could be trusted to run tabs and pay them.
Two brothers in Atlanta went door to door to collect that information.
They compiled it into a publication called The Merchants Guide and sold annual subscriptions for $25.
The company and its competitors swept through the country, employing thousands of investigators to investigate peoples lives.
Their reports were widely available for sale to anyone except the individuals themselves.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In the 1960s, the credit bureaus secrecy and unchecked power prompted alarm within Congress.
The hearings that followed exposed the more unsavory practices, like including unverified gossip about peoples marital indiscretions in their reports.
The bureaus amassed personal dossiers so detailed that J. Edgar Hoover was covetous.
The F.B.I.
is constantly in our files, an executive at a credit bureau testified.
Congress responded by passing the Fair Credit Reporting Act, which created some safeguards.
For the first time, people were allowed to review their own files and report errors.
Photo

But the strongest agencies just kept growing, often by acquiring rivals.
By the late 1990s, three big national players were left.
With little competition, the bureaus saw an opening for a new sales market: capitalizing on consumers curiosity and concern about their credit files.
In 2001, Equifax teamed up with Fair Isaac to let people buy their three-digit FICO credit scores.
Today, Equifax charges people $40 to see all three of their reports.
(Consumers are entitled to one free credit report from each of the bureaus annually.)
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The companys consumer business generates $400 million in annual sales, much of it through resellers.
Using Equifax data, LifeLock sells identity theft protection, a booming business since the breach.
Such sales, while strong, are eclipsed by the money Equifax makes from human resources products.
It entered the market in 2007 with the purchase of Talx, which verified employment for companies.
Mr. Smith viewed Talx as a beachhead into a lucrative new data field: payroll information.
When Equifax bought the company, Talx held 142 million employment records.
The unit now has 300 million.
Its been a nearly 10-year investment, but now its paying off for Equifax, said Brett Horn, an investment analyst at Morningstar.
They have something their rivals dont.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A few expansion efforts fizzled, especially in tightly regulated markets.
In 1995, Equifax teamed with AT&T to develop health care products, including electronic patient records.
The effort quietly died a year later, right around the time that Congress passed a strict medical privacy bill.
As the industry expanded, safety became a sales pitch.
We have been blessed in our rich history to never have a major breach, Mr. Smith said at a financial conference shortly after joining the company in 2005.
In one document, Equifax called itself the trusted stewards of data.
If youre not ahead of security risk, the pitch read, youre behind it.
After previous smaller breaches, the bureaus have been reluctant to offer consumers the strongest form of protection, credit freezes, free of charge.
Freezing a file prevents new credit lines from being opened, which locks out identity thieves.
After Experians servers were attacked two years ago, exposing personal details on 15 million T-Mobile customers, consumer advocates urged both companies to provide free credit freezes at all three bureaus.
Doing that would set a terrible precedent and haunt all future breaches, Experians senior vice president of government affairs and public policy said in a response intended for executives at his company and T-Mobile.
The reply was accidentally emailed to one of the advocates.
Giving in to the demand will not satiate their hatred for Experian, he added.
Instead, he suggested responding with a letter explaining why fraud alerts were good enough.
We could turn our response into a good P.R.
approach if done right, he wrote.
Experian said in a statement that the opinions in the email did not reflect the companys position.
The company said it had provided affected individuals with free credit monitoring and credit freezes at Experian at no charge.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Equifaxs own response to its breach has been marred by blunders.
An Equifax website was supposed to allow customers to determine if they had been affected; it didnt work correctly.
The companys Twitter account accidentally steered people toward a fake site.
And when millions of consumers went to freeze their Equifax credit files, some had to pay for the service.
After people protested, the company waived the fees.
From a business perspective, it will be paramount for Equifax to keep its customers  financial firms and other big companies  happy.
Six of Americas largest financial services companies  American Express, Bank of America, Capital One, Citibank, Discover and JPMorgan Chase  declined to comment on whether the breach would alter their relationships with Equifax.
Walmart, the nations largest private employer, and Kroger, the second biggest, said they were comfortable continuing to send Equifax their payroll data.
Still, some  mainly smaller organizations  are beginning to rethink their relationship with the company.
Summit Credit Union in Madison, Wis., filed a lawsuit against Equifax.
The firm is seeking compensation for the economic harm that it said it was likely to suffer from the breach.
This situation has caused us all to pause, said Sandi Papenfuhs, senior vice president of consumer lending at another firm, First Tech Federal Credit Union in Beaverton, Ore.
Anytime someone is not securing member data to the same degree that we do and we expect, we will take action on that relationship accordingly.
But her credit union will continue to send Equifax data.
Withholding information would only hurt consumers, she explained, because it would create an incomplete picture of their credit history.
I am unaware of a way to just stop, from any individual lender perspective, Ms. Papenfuhs said, and not cause consumer harm.
Mr. Altizer is part of a backlash against the women in technology movement.
While many in the tech industry had previously dismissed the fringe mens rights arguments, some investors, executives and engineers are now listening.
Though studies and surveys show there is no denying the travails women face in the male-dominated industry, some said that the line for what counted as harassment had become too easy to cross and that the push for gender parity was too extreme a goal.
Few were willing to talk openly about their thinking, for fear of standing out in largely progressive Silicon Valley.
Even so, witch hunt is the new whispered meme.
Some in tech have started identifying as contrarians, to indicate subtly that they do not follow the diversity dogma.
And self-described mens rights activists in Silicon Valley said their numbers at meetings were rising.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Others are playing down the women-in-tech issue.
Onstage at a recent event, the venture capitalist Vinod Khosla said harassment in Silicon Valley was rarer than in most other businesses.
Many men now feel like theres a gun to the head to be better about gender issues, said Rebecca Lynn, a venture capitalist at Canvas Ventures, and while theres a high awareness right now, which is positive, at the same time theres a fear.
The backlash follows increasingly vulgar harassment revelations in Silicon Valley.
Several female engineers and entrepreneurs this year named the men they accused of harassing them, and suddenly techs boys club seemed anything but impervious.
Travis Kalanick, Ubers co-founder, resigned as chief executive after the ride-hailing service was embroiled in harassment accusations.
Dave McClure, head of the incubator 500 Startups, called himself a creep and stepped down.
This month, the chief executive of Social Finance, Mike Cagney, also quit amid a harassment scandal.
In the aftermath, many stood up for gender equality in tech.
Reid Hoffman, LinkedIns founder, asked investors to sign a decency pledge.
Many companies reiterated that they needed to improve work force diversity.
Photo

In just the last 48 hours, Ive spoken to a female tech executive who was grabbed by a male C.E.O.
at a large event and another female executive who was asked to interview at a venture fund because they feel like they need to hire a woman, said Dick Costolo, the former chief of Twitter, who now runs the fitness start-up Chorus.
We should worry about whether the women-in-tech movement has gone too far sometime after a couple of these arent regularly happening anymore.
But those who privately thought things had gone too far were given a voice by James Damore, 28, a soft-spoken Google engineer.
Mr. Damore, frustrated after another diversity training, wrote a memo that he posted to an internal Google message board.
In it, he argued that maybe women were not equally represented in tech because they were biologically less capable of engineering.
Google fired him last month.
After months of apologizing by Silicon Valley for bad behavior, here was a young man whom some in techs leadership could potentially get behind.
Paul Graham, who founded an influential start-up incubator, Y Combinator, posted two articles about how the science behind Mr. Damores memo was accurate.
Another start-up investor, John Durant, wrote that Charles Darwin himself would be fired from Google for his views on the sexes.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And the investor Peter Thiels business partner, Eric Weinstein, tweeted, Dear @Google, Stop teaching my girl that her path to financial freedom lies not in coding but in complaining to HR.
Mr. Durant declined to comment.
Mr. Graham said in an email that there needed to be more distinction between fact and policy, and Mr. Weinstein said there was a sea of brilliant women and that more needed to be done to figure out how to more fully empower them.
As publishers grasp for new revenue streams, a try-anything approach has taken hold.
Time Inc. has a new streaming TV show, Paws & Claws, that features viral videos of animals.
Hearst started a magazine with the online rental service Airbnb.
Increasingly, the longtime core of the business  the print product  is an afterthought, overshadowed by investments in live events, podcasts, video, and partnerships with outside brands.
Photo

The changes represent one of the most fundamental shifts in decades for a business that long relied on a simple formula: glossy volumes thick with high-priced ads.
Sentimentality is probably the biggest enemy for the magazine business, David Carey, the president of Hearst Magazines, said in an interview.
You have to embrace the future.
At a time of belt-tightening, celebrity editors, with their big salaries and expensive tastes, are increasingly pass.
Budget-minded executives at publishers like Hearst and Cond Nast are looking more critically at requests for six-figure photo shoots and $5-a-word writers.
The timing doesnt really surprise me, said Tom Harty, president and chief operating officer at Meredith, which publishes Better Homes & Gardens and Family Circle.
Magazines, Mr. Harty said, often circulate upcoming budget numbers in September.
When you start thinking about the revenue stream for the following year, he said in an interview, it must lead to some cost discussion.
In some ways, the spate of departures was a coincidence.
Mr. Carter, 68, said he would have left earlier this year if not for the election of President Trump, whom he enjoys covering.
Mr. Wenner, 71, has been deferring to his son, Gus, 27, who this year was named president of Wenner Media.
Nancy Gibbs of Time had worked at the company for 32 years.
And Cindi Leive of Glamour and Robbie Myers of Elle both served for nearly two decades.
Photo

Quietly, optimists in the business say that it may be healthy for a younger generation of editors to take the reins.
Older editors are less accustomed to the rhythms and forms of web journalism; Jann Wenner, for instance, famously resisted posting Rolling Stone stories online.
Many of the industrys rising stars are finding ways to raise revenue and gain readers on the digital side.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

If you want to do the same thing year in and year out, you shouldnt do these jobs, Mr. Carey said.
Kurt Andersen, a former editor of New York and, with Mr. Carter, a founder of Spy magazine, said that print magazines were still breathing, but that the recent upheaval was a sign that the denouement might not be far off.
The 1920s to the 2020s was kind of the century of the magazine, he said, noting that The New Yorker and Time were founded in the decade before the Great Depression.
Today, he added, the industry was in more of a dusk, a slow dusk, and were closer to sunset.
In his spacious aerie in Hearsts Midtown Manhattan tower, Mr. Carey displays trinkets of an earlier, more glamorous magazine age.
Behind his desk is a framed quote from Malcolm Forbes, the exuberant late chairman of Forbes magazine, and a yellowing memo about Tina Brown from Mr. Careys days as publisher of The New Yorker.
His 43rd floor office overlooks the Hudson River and Central Park.
Photo

But as the executive leading Hearsts magazine business into an uncertain future, Mr. Carey said that he was focused on identifying new ways to increase revenue and trim expenses.
We know that we have to constantly force ourselves to shake things up, said Mr. Carey, dressed meticulously in navy pinstripe.
All media companies are going through a period of change, and were not immune from that.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Hearst, like Cond Nast, is privately held, so the details of its financial performance are unclear.
But recent earnings reports from Hearsts publicly traded competitors provide a glimpse into the magazine industrys falling fortunes.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Revenue at Time Inc. has declined every year since 2011; the company, which recently took itself off the market after speculation about a potential sale, is now aiming to cut $400 million in costs over the next 18 months.
Although the print business still accounts for roughly two-thirds of Time Inc.s $3 billion in annual revenue, the company is shifting resources to video and television.
Meredith, whose headquarters in Des Moines has test kitchens, craft studios and a wood shop, is doing comparatively better than its more glamorous rivals based in New York.
Its magazines, which focus largely on perennial topics like decorating and recipes, remain popular with the companys mostly female readers.
Still, Meredith reported a slight drop in revenue for its magazine business in its most recent fiscal year, which ended in June.
A flurry of recent sales also suggest that smaller publishers are having trouble surviving on their own.
Photo

Before Mr. Wenner put Rolling Stone up for sale, Wenner Media sold Us Weekly and Mens Journal to American Media Inc., the owner of The National Enquirer.
Johnson Publishing, which is based in Chicago, sold the magazines Ebony and Jet last summer to a private equity firm.
Rodale, whose titles include Bicycling, Runners World and Mens and Womens Health, recently said it, too, was for sale; a deal is expected to be announced in the coming weeks.
There have never been brand names like that that have been sold in such a concentrated period, said Reed Phillips, a managing partner at the investment bank Oaklins DeSilva & Phillips.
That alone indicates something is going on.
The financial outlook remains bleak.
Analysts and executives expect double-digit annual declines in print advertising to continue.
The ad buying firm Magna projects print magazine ad sales to fall 13 percent this year, with a similar rate of decline in 2018, according to a report released last week.
Mr. Phillips said it was only a matter of time until these trends were felt at the industrys highest levels.
In the past, magazines could support celebrity editors, but its becoming harder and harder with the revenue declines to do that, he said.
This is really not about making the numbers in 2017, but making the numbers in 2018.
One day after the fete for Mr. Carter at the Waverly Inn, Time Inc. rolled out a major initiative: PeopleTV.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A new iteration of a streaming video network that the company introduced last year, PeopleTV will feature pop culture programming in conjunction with Entertainment Weekly, another Time Inc. title.
Among the shows on offer: Paws & Claws, which, according to a news release, will feature all of the adorable, viral and buzzworthy animal stories of the week.
Photo

Pet videos are a favorite on social media, so it is easy to see why Time Inc. wants to jump on the fluffy bandwagon.
But that material is a far cry from the award-winning journalism that filled once-thick issues of Fortune, Sports Illustrated and Time, where Mr. Carter got his start in New York journalism.
These experiments are part of an industrywide race to find some way  any way  to make up for the hemorrhaging of revenue.
Hearst recently introduced The Pioneer Woman Magazine, a partnership with the Food Network host Ree Drummond that was initially sold only at Walmart.
Its new travel publication, Airbnbmag, is geared toward customers of the do-it-yourself online rental site, with distribution at newsstands, airports and supermarkets.
Meredith has started a magazine called The Magnolia Journal with the HGTV stars Chip and Joanna Gaines.
Even Cond Nast, the glitzy purveyor of luxury titles, has recognized the advantages of outside partnerships.
In recent weeks, the company debuted a quarterly print title for Goop, Gwyneth Paltrows lifestyle brand, with a cover featuring a topless Ms. Paltrow submerged in mud from France.
At Vanity Fair, Mr. Carter resisted efforts by Cond Nast executives to shift his design, photo, research and copy teams out of the magazines purview, a move required of nearly every other title as part of a companywide cost-cutting effort, according to two people who spoke anonymously to describe private discussions.
Mr. Carter was reluctant to make additional cuts that may be forced upon his magazine in the future, the people said.
Some veteran editors rue the trend toward corporate metrics in the industry.
Terry McDonell, a former top editor at Sports Illustrated and Rolling Stone, said that celebrity editors of the past embodied and defined the magazines they ran.
Now that is being replaced by people who believe that you can, in fact, engineer creativity and quality journalism, he said.
Mr. Andersen, who now writes books and hosts a public radio show, said that magazines might eventually gain a cult following akin to the interest around other obsolete media, like vinyl records.
Eventually, theyll become like sailboats, he said.
They dont need to exist anymore.
But people will still love them, and make them and buy them.
The Fed chairman also plays a leading role in financial regulation and will have to navigate calls by Republican leaders, including Mr. Trump, to roll back some of the rules put in place after the 2008 financial crisis.
Ms. Yellen was a principal architect of those more stringent regulations and has said the financial system is much stronger as a result.
Mr. Trump has criticized many of the banking rules, saying they are excessive and impeding economic growth.
The candidates to replace Ms. Yellen all share those concerns to varying degrees.
Given the high stakes, Mr. Trumps decision has become a source of intrigue in political and economic circles this year.
There is also a growing sense of urgency: Both Ms. Yellen and her predecessor, Ben S. Bernanke, were nominated in October, leaving ample time for the Senate to hold confirmation hearings.
Mr. Trump has said he does not plan to make a decision until later in the year, leaving little time for the Senate to act given the tight calendar.
Aides say he is not yet focused on the search.
Additional candidates could ultimately be considered.
The administration officials and the other person with knowledge of the search requested anonymity because of the sensitive nature of the job in question.
A White House spokeswoman had no immediate comment, and Mr. Cohn, Mr. Taylor and Mr. Warsh did not respond to requests for comment.
A Fed spokeswoman said Ms. Yellen and Mr. Powell declined to comment.
The next Fed chairman is likely to begin the four-year term in an atmosphere of relative tranquillity during one of the longest economic expansions in American history.
But the Fed is confronting a number of difficult issues.
One question is whether it can do more to increase economic growth.
Another is whether the Fed will be ready for the next economic downturn.
In addition to a Fed chairman, Mr. Trump also must fill four open seats on the seven-member board.
That means he can immediately appoint a majority of Fed governors, putting his stamp on the institution.
He has made just one choice so far, nominating Randal K. Quarles to be the Feds vice chairman for supervision.
That nomination is pending, though Mr. Quarles is expected to be confirmed.
Photo

Mr. Trump has deputized four officials to lead the selection process for the Feds next chairman, said one person familiar with the search: Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin; two of Mr. Cohns aides on the National Economic Council, Jeremy Katz and Andrew Olmem; and John DeStefano, the White House personnel director.
Mr. Cohn, who initially participated in conversations about the potential nominees for Fed governor seats, has removed himself from the discussions about the central banks next chairman, given that he is a potential candidate for the job, said several people with knowledge of his involvement.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Cohn left the No.
2 position at Goldman Sachs to join Mr. Trumps administration as head of the National Economic Council.
He quickly developed an easy rapport with the president, who is said to value Mr. Cohns knowledge of markets and finance.
Mr. Cohn has played a major role in the administrations push for a tax-cut bill; he also has been a moderating voice in internal debates on issues like restricting free trade.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In a July interview with The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Trump described Mr. Cohn and Ms. Yellen as candidates for the Fed job.
The next month, Mr. Cohn publicly criticized the presidents response to a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, creating tension.
But the two men have reestablished a comfort level, and Mr. Cohn remains a candidate.
Mr. Cohn is a strong advocate for easing financial regulation, which he argues is unnecessarily impeding economic activity.
But he has rarely spoken publicly about monetary policy; the other four candidates whose names are known all have significant experience with monetary policy.
Mr. Warsh, who served on the Feds board between 2006 and 2011, was a member of Mr. Trumps business advisory council and has informally advised him on a range of economic issues.
That may be a significant advantage, given the presidents demonstrated preference for people he knows and trusts.
Mr. Warsh is married to Jane Lauder, the daughter of Ronald Lauder, a friend and occasional adviser to the president.
Mr. Warsh is a lawyer by training and a banker by trade before entering public service in 2002 as a member of President George W. Bushs National Economic Council.
After leaving the Fed, he joined the Hoover Institution, a public-policy think tank run by Stanford, as a visiting fellow.
He has been a vocal critic of the Feds economic stimulus campaign under both Mr. Bernanke and Ms. Yellen, arguing it has been ineffective and may have dangerous side effects.
At a Hoover conference in May, he said the Fed needs to be aggressive and powerful in responding to financial crises, but remain more traditional when the market is not in crisis.
Mr. Taylor, a colleague of Mr. Warshs at Hoover, has offered a similar critique of Fed policy.
Mr. Taylor served in the Treasury Department during the Bush administration but he is best known as an academic economist.
He wrote a formulaic approach to monetary policy, known as the Taylor Rule, which suggests that the Fed should be raising rates more quickly.
He also has closely advised House Republicans on legislation that would require the Fed to adopt such a policy rule.
Mr. Powell, the only Republican on the Feds board, is regarded as a centrist voice on both monetary policy and regulatory issues.
In internal discussions and public remarks, he has sometimes pushed back against the most ardent supporters of the Feds postcrisis stimulus campaign.
Similarly, he has sometimes raised questions about changes in financial regulation.
But on both fronts he has consistently voted with the majority.
A Treasury Department official under President George H.W.
Bush, Mr. Powell then built a fortune as a partner at the Carlyle Group, a private equity firm, before he was nominated to the Fed by President Obama in 2012.
His experience at the Fed, and his connections both in the financial world and in the Republican Party, could make him an attractive candidate.
But his track record suggests he may be less likely than some of the other candidates to press for dramatic changes in monetary and regulatory policies.
The shock was about to deepen.
The Ahsanis privately held company, Unaoil, a go-to agent for multinationals operating in the biggest oil patches on earth, would soon become the target of investigations on three continents.
The authorities in Britain, the United States and Australia are examining whether the family paid bribes in resource-rich countries, like Iraq and Libya, on behalf of a long list of companies.
Multinationals that vie for contracts in challenging markets have been quietly hiring middlemen for decades, seeking help to navigate countries where they dont know the folkways or politics.
It is one of the oil industrys most enduring but invisible roles.
Many of these middlemen stay on the right side of the law, offering advice and connections.
But others cross the line.
They grease the palms of officials and local managers, and they put a buffer between the payoff and the client, offering plausible deniability if the authorities catch on.
For Western corporations, such payments and other improprieties can run afoul of corruption laws and can lead to huge fines and, in some cases, prison terms.
In 2016, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice collected more than $2 billion in fines from 26 companies that settled charges that they had violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
The Ahsanis have denied all charges, with vehemence and an armada of lawyers.
They say that they had an advisory division, but that work relied on cultivated relationships and hard-won knowledge, not graft.
They also oversaw a variety of joint ventures, they say, and at one point employed 1,400 laborers in countries like Iraq and Kazakhstan, working on a variety of engineering and construction projects.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As the Ahsanis seek to clear their name, they face some thorny evidence  their own words.
The day after the raid in March 2016, a newspaper in Australia, The Age, published a multipart expos based largely on the contents of a Unaoil hard drive stuffed with emails, records and receipts.
The paper called Unaoil the company that bribed the world.
In these documents, the Ahsanis come across as cautious players in a treacherous game.
The family and employees communicate with code words and nicknames.
When an underling, strategizing about an Iraqi oil official, takes a blunt approach  The best medicine for a calm life is a dose of George Washington  he is rebuked.
The way you write your emails may give rise to questions, Saman Ahsani replied.
Photo

The hard drive itself, which was sent to The Age by an unidentified source, is shrouded in intrigue.
Lawyers for the Ahsanis say it was used in an extortion attempt in the months before the raid.
Send me $5 million, wrote a blackmailer who asked to be called Komrade, or all these documents will wind up on the internet.
But the provenance of the hard drive has not slowed the authorities.
Since its contents were published, the British authorities have begun a number of investigations into former Unaoil clients.
One of them is Petrofac, a British oil field services company, which suspended its chief operating officer in May after he and the chief executive were arrested, questioned and then released by the Serious Fraud Office.
Petrofac later released a statement that said it had taken a number of actions that signal the boards determination to cooperate fully with the S.F.O.
Experts say that in the short term, prosecutors hope that companies will sign settlements and that some executives will go to prison.
Longer term, said Andrew Spalding, a professor at the University of Richmond School of Law and senior editor of a blog about foreign corrupt practices, their hope is that this case changes the cost-benefit analysis of any company that thinks it needs to engage in bribery to compete.
A Toxic Brand

A soft-spoken 43-year-old with courtly manners and an Oxford education, Saman Ahsani is the family diplomat.
When he, his brother and his father decided that they were tired of being portrayed in the media as high-end grifters, Mr. Ahsani was the emissary to The New York Times, in the first sit-down interview given by any of the principals since the raid.
His lawyers, quite sensibly, asked him to avoid legal issues.
But he was eager to describe the familys business history and the personal toll the case has taken.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Our reputation has been shredded, he said, sitting on a Louis XVI-style sofa in his Monaco apartment with a striking view of the ocean.
Within 24 hours, we became pariahs.
A toxic brand, overnight.
The publication of Cyrus Ahsanis sometimes fratboyish musings, and the investigation, sent him into a deep depression that lasted for months, his brother said.
Their fathers trouble with heart palpitations has worsened, along with some memory loss.
Its been incredibly frustrating for him, Mr. Ahsani said.
Itd be tough for anyone, especially when you think this is all completely unjustified.
For much of a 90-minute interview, he described Unaoils work for an array of companies, including BP and Shell, handling jobs like on-site inspections and equipment maintenance.
To buttress his account, he handed over a color brochure with photographs and descriptions of projects, all of them in Iraq.
One project was installing new interface facilities in the West Qurna oil field on behalf of the Basrah Gas Company.
Photo

Were portrayed as this brass-plate money-laundering operation, Mr. Ahsani said.
With just a few phone calls, you can see this is a company that, year in, year out, is delivering projects for large companies.
A number of former clients declined to discuss Unaoil.
Neither BP nor Shell would comment, and emails to the Basrah Gas Company were not returned.
The batch of leaked documents, by contrast, is like an informant who wont shut up.
An excerpt of about 100 pages was provided to The Times by The Age.
Many transactions are detailed, including $400,000 given to an Iranian expatriate with connections to Azerbaijans oil minister, and 2.75 million euros given to a businessman tight with the Syrian regime.
Without context and a basic grasp of in-house terminology, some sentences read like nonsense.
When a Unaoil manager wants to boast to a potential American client about how much sway the company has with key players in Kazakhstan, he writes about the need to demonstrate that we own the Spaghetti House and have a lease on the Shashlik takeaway.
But the exchange is in the midst of discussion that is not about food.
Its about an Italian oil company (Spaghetti House) with strong links to Kazakh oil officials (Shashlik, a popular dish in Kazakhstan).
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In a recent email, Mr. Ahsani said he was unable to comment on the specifics of the internal documents because anything he says may hinder an eventual defense.
He added, There is a great deal we would like to say.
The Ahsanis have never said the cache of documents is not authentic.
What the documents show is that the Ahsanis operate in a realm that is both competitive and exasperating.
The politicians they deal with are high maintenance  cranky, greedy and unreliable.
The Ahsanis and colleagues describe doling out cash for flights, five-star hotels, clothing, even CDs and perfume.
An Iraqi heavy hitter gets two shopping sprees and English lessons for his son.
There are indignities, too.
When an oil executive with ties to Kazakhstans president was invited to the wedding of the Ahsanis other brother, Sassan, an assistant wrote to say a pop-star friend would attend instead.
His name is Yensepov, the assistant emailed in a document dated May 2006.
Can you book a single room for him in the same hotel, please?
Saman Ahsani forwarded the email to his brother and father, adding: Is he joking?
Changing Circumstances

The Ahsanis have resided for years in Monaco, a principality of 500 impeccably maintained acres of luxury shopping and manicured streets  like a Worlds Fair in which the theme is Money, or what youd expect if Rodeo Drive were a country.
Tourists cluster around the elegant Casino de Monte-Carlo and gawk at Lamborghinis and Bentleys in steady orbit on an adjacent street.
Roughly 40,000 people call this place home, lured by some combination of fine weather, price-on-request real estate and favorable tax treatment.
Photo

The social scene is tightly knit, and the Ahsanis were once prominent members of it.
Cyrus Ahsani was treasurer of the Monaco Ambassadors Club, an elite group of executives, diplomats and celebrities that claims Prince Albert II as honorary president.
The Ahsanis party-going days are behind them.
Bankers and accountants, once so eager to help, now shun the family.
Even small decisions must first be run by professionals.
Your life suddenly becomes: Are the lawyers going to approve this, are they going to approve that?
Saman Ahsani said.
Every day there are not one or two fires.
There are 15 fires.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The familys current circumstances  both its riches and its unwanted notoriety  are a world away from its origins.
Ata Ahsani grew up in a modest home in an ancient town in the south of Iran, the son of a carpet designer.
Scholarships sent him to universities in both England and the United States, but he returned to work for years at Western oil companies in Iran.
After the revolution in 1978, he moved to London and started all over in the chemical trade.
More than a decade later, he founded Unaoil in 1991.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Saman Ahsani said that over the years the company had spent millions building repair and service centers in Algeria, Azerbaijan and various countries in the Middle East, to fix or upgrade equipment like pumps and compressors.
The British authorities seem to believe that these enterprises were largely a cover.
The Serious Fraud Office stated in a court filing last year that it was unpersuaded that Unaoil conducts any lawful business.
That offends the Ahsanis.
To rebut the charge, they set up an interview with a former oil field manager, who agreed to talk on the phone if he was not named.
It was hard enough, this former senior vice president said, to find a new job.
His division had 230 people in Iraq, doing pump maintenance and site inspections, he said over the course of a half-hour discussion.
The story was detailed, and it ended with a grim description of laying off his entire crew soon after the raid of the Ahsanis homes.
But he acknowledged that he knew nothing about the advisory division of the company, where, the British authorities indicate, the bribery is alleged to have taken place.
Lindsey Mitchell, on the other hand, knew that division well.
He worked there in 2009.
A 30-year veteran of the oil industry, Mr. Mitchell was hired by Unaoil because, he said in a recent phone interview, the Ahsanis were impressed by his connections to the regime of Muammar el-Qaddafi in Libya.
The Ahsanis are likable guys, said Mr. Mitchell, who moved with his wife to Monaco for the job.
Very welcoming.
Nine months after he started, Mr. Mitchell flew to Tripoli to secure a $45 million environmental cleanup contract.
When he later reported to the Ahsanis, via Skype, that a manager at Waha Oil Company, a subsidiary of Libyas state-owned oil business, had demanded a payoff, the family did not demur, Mr. Mitchell recalled.
Soon, he said, an Ahsani relative, who ran Unaoils office in Tripoli, handed him an envelope that contained at least $10,000.
Mr. Mitchell said he had delivered the envelope, then started to feel awful.
He had never bribed anyone in his life.
I took a hard look at what Id done, he said.
Ive got kids, and I thought if they knew what just happened, they would lose all respect.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The day after the envelope drop, Mr. Mitchell said, he emailed a resignation letter to the Ahsanis.
When he read the article in The Age, he contacted the lead reporter and had a request: Tell the authorities in the United States and Britain how to get in touch.
Photo

I knew my name was all over those documents, Mr. Mitchell said.
So I figured I wouldnt wait for them to come find me.
He has since debriefed the British authorities at a meeting in Vienna and the Federal Bureau of Investigation at a hotel near the airport in Calgary, Alberta.
Without asking for immunity, he described everything he knew.
Whether he is currently in legal jeopardy is unclear.
Asked about Mr. Mitchell, a lawyer for the Ahsanis, Roger Burlingame, said, We cannot comment at this stage, but we look forward to addressing Mr. Mitchells claims at the appropriate time.
Soul of a Spy Novelist

The identity of the person who leaked documents about Unaoil to The Age has not been made public.
But this much is obvious: Whoever it was has the soul of a spy novelist.
Before sending anything, the source asked the paper to demonstrate its commitment by placing an ad in a French magazine, Le Figaro, that included the words Monte Christo.
A reporter, Nick McKenzie, followed those instructions, posting a for-sale notice for a nonexistent home in Sydney, Australia.
The source, soon nicknamed Le Figaro, ultimately provided hundreds of thousands of documents.
In the hopes of maximizing publicity about the case, The Age shared the tranche with its media partner The Huffington Post, which published its own articles the same day as The Age.
Le Figaro also wanted the documents shared with law enforcement in Australia.
Mr. McKenzie said a heads-up had been given to officials about the date when The Age and The Huffington Post would publish, which helps explains the one-two timing of the raid and the exposs.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Ahsanis knew that a public-relations nightmare could be imminent.
In December 2015, the family says, the company had been contacted by someone identified as Komrade, whom we will assume is male, for the sake of a pronoun.
Documents provided to The Times by a publicist for the Ahsanis show that Komrade claimed to have spent $50,000 for a Unaoil hard drive sold by a hacker.
For $5 million in Bitcoin, Komrade offered to destroy the lot.
If he wasnt paid in three days, everything would be sent to newspapers and WikiLeaks.
Some people very stupid, emotion get in the way, Komrade wrote, using what was either Russian-accented prose or an English speakers attempt to sound Russian.
Ignore my request and your family business comes to an end.
A cybersecurity firm, Guidepost Solutions, advised the Ahsanis to pay a fraction of the demanded ransom to keep talks going and perhaps reel Komrade in.
A tense, four-month negotiation ensued.
Saman Ahsani again served as diplomat, according to the documents provided by the Ahsanis publicist.
We are in the process of sending the initial payment, he wrote to Komrade in late December, on the verge of sending $50,000.
This is done as a sign of good faith and keeps to our word.
Komrade was ultimately sent an additional $100,000, which was far short of expectations.
The documents provided by the Ahsanis publicist show him growing more irritated and profane.
His final words arrived on March 25: Is time now for you feel some pain.
Four days later, the police in Monaco came knocking.
Are Le Figaro and Komrade the same person, an extortionist masquerading as a whistle-blower, or perhaps a whistle-blower who dabbles in extortion?
Lawyers for the Ahsanis think the answer is yes, and they have tried to turn the extortion plot into a media ethics matter, suggesting that The Age was relying on information used to commit blackmail.
Editors at The Age, which is owned by Fairfax Media, counter that the Ahsanis never mentioned blackmail when contacted with prepublication questions.
They add that Le Figaro did not ask for money, nor did anyone else reached by reporters after they started digging into the story.
These additional sources include former employees of Unaoil, according to Mr. McKenzie.
We have no evidence that our sources were involved in extortion attempts, and any alleged extortion bid has nothing to do with Fairfax Media, Alex Lavelle, editor of The Age, said in an email.
We maintain our stories on Unaoil are true, in the public interest and unimpeachable.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

For the Serious Fraud Office, the stakes in the Unaoil case are high.
It has struggled for respect in the realm of corporate prosecutions and has badly lagged behind the Department of Justice in foreign corruption actions.
A spokesman for the office noted an in email that the Bribery Act, the countrys answer to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, didnt go into effect until 2011.
We have secured successful outcomes in all cases brought under the law, said the spokesman, Adam Lilley.
For the Ahsanis, the stakes are far higher.
Monaco is a signatory to the European Convention on Extradition, which means the family is shadowed by the possibility that the local police may one day return, and this time hand the Ahsanis over to the British authorities, who could seek prison sentences.
The Ahsanis now have little choice but to wind down what is left of the company, confer with attorneys and wait.
Lawyers in the white-collar field say that if charges are ultimately filed against the family, a case will not be easy for the government to win.
Following the money in these investigations is time consuming and difficult, and internal emails alone are hardly proof of a crime.
Also, it would be hugely difficult to obtain witnesses in countries like Iraq.
But Saman Ahsani said some of his neighbors had already come up with a verdict of their own.
There are certain individuals, you can see written on their face, while you are talking, at best a presumption of guilt, he said.
At worst, a little bit of a smirk, like they are getting enjoyment out of the misery of others.
There is also the threat of Amazon, which has tried food delivery in a few markets.
The Seattle retail giants recent acquisition of Whole Foods provides hundreds of potential bases for drivers to pick up prepared food for delivery in major urban areas, where takeout orders are popular.
The number-one concern for all of these delivery companies is Amazon, said James Cakmak, an analyst at the equity research firm Monness, Crespi, Hardt & Company who follows the food delivery space.
How could Amazon use its network to crush our business?
They have the logistical network and the balance sheet to be able to compete on the price side with all of these players.
Matt Maloney, the founder and chief executive of Grubhub, said his companys focus on food orders set it apart.
Uber has built a great company focused on black car service and human transportation, but succeeding in food delivery is a different game, Mr. Maloney said in a statement.
We are known for one thing only  takeout ordering  and we have engineered our entire product around this purpose.
Photo

Both Amazon and Postmates declined to comment on UberEats.
Uber first dabbled in food delivery in Los Angeles in 2014 under the name UberFresh, offering prepackaged lunches and dinners from restaurants.
Uber also tried other experiments, like UberEssentials, a way to deliver pantry and drugstore items quickly.
If you can hit a button and get a car in a few minutes, what else can you get in a few minutes?
Mr. Droege said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But the situation wasnt ideal, with drivers usually carting food around in a safe storage container in their car trunks.
That led to issues with food quality, and customers were unhappy when their food arrived cold.
People also wanted a greater selection of restaurants, something that competitors like Postmates provided.
In December 2015, Mr. Droeges division introduced a separate app, UberEats, in Toronto, working with restaurants to provide freshly cooked meals that could be ordered with a few touches of a smartphone button.
The service took off, and over the next 18 months UberEats expanded its sales force to bring more restaurants on board and to open in new cities.
Photo

Uber executives said UberEats, which is now in more than 120 cities, had several advantages over rivals.
For one, Uber has a network of more than two million drivers who can also deliver food.
Cars used for UberEats also do not need to pass all of the inspection standards required to carry passengers, widening the potential delivery labor pool.
(Drivers need not own a car at all; UberBike is a popular delivery method for food orders.)
Uber has also spent the better part of a decade mapping cities and finding the most efficient routes, which the company said may help improve delivery times.
And since the problems with UberFresh, it has invested in better technology and added more drivers in participating cities.
The ideal UberEats delivery has the driver arrive at the restaurant just as the food has finished cooking, and has it delivered to the customer while still warm.
What Uber has are the last-mile logistics, and thats crucial, Mr. Cakmak said.
Uber has taken the partnership approach to speed up the growth of UberEats, echoing a strategy of companies like Postmates.
Uber struck a deal with McDonalds this year to offer delivery from thousands of its restaurants.
Lucy Brady, a McDonalds executive, said on an investor call in July that the initial results of the partnership were positive.
The service has stumbled at times, including this month when it faced complaints that an ad in India  telling husbands to use UberEats so their wives could take a day off from cooking  was sexist.
The company apologized for the ad.
Uber said it had invested in increasing its UberEats sales force, as well as hiring data scientists to analyze daily information on customer orders and preferences to help restaurants improve their service or promote their more popular menu items.
For Mr. Gordon, the owner of Footprints Cafe, Ubers investments have been a boon for business.
He said the delivery service had helped his restaurant reach new customers outside its loyal Caribbean community, without spending on advertising or promotion on Facebook or Groupon, as he did in the past.
Weve employed people who just work on Uber deliveries, and have a counter just for Uber driver pickup, Mr. Gordon said.
It has definitely been worth it.
The credit reporting industry exists to take bland numbers, run them through mysterious algorithms and then spit out report cards and scores.
These become final, generally unappealable judgments that dictate the interest rates that consumers pay on mortgages, car loans and anything else that requires borrowing.
Everyone from auto dealers to home loan officers sees the grades that Equifax and its counterparts distribute with the help of a company called FICO.
If youre not up to snuff, a stranger at a desk or counter may inform you to your face that your dream house is out of reach or that you wont have a car to drive to work.
Its going to dawn on people that we are defined by these descriptors, markers and measures, but we have no meaningful informational rights to them or over them, Sarah Bloom Raskin, who served as deputy Treasury secretary during the Obama administration, said in an email this week.
The credit reporting industry begins with a sort of entrapment, said Amanda Steinberg, chief executive of DailyWorth, a financial website geared toward women, when we discussed the breach this week.
If you want to do business with just about any financial services company, you must agree to allow it to report your payment history to the credit reporting agencies.
This is reasonable in theory: An accurate central repository of data ought to make getting credit easier and cheaper.
But there does not appear to be any way to step out of the system unless you can live a life completely free of the need for credit, mobile phones and many jobs (since employers often make a credit check a condition of employment).
And if the information in your credit report turns out to be wrong, good luck getting the bureaus to fix it, as the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau revealed in a report this year.
The industrys cynical response to its own sloppiness has been to sell highly profitable monitoring services to people who fear errors and identity theft.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Want to get in touch with the credit-reporting agencies about your credit report or the fact that a thief may have a pile of your data?
Good luck.
Zeke Trautenberg, who lives in Los Angeles, spoke to two people answering Equifaxs phones after the breach.
They told him they had no databases of information about what had happened or even any internet access to look simple things up.
Photo

It was kind of like calling into a black box, he said, adding that he had been told: We cant contact anyone at headquarters.
We dont even have their phone number.
The frustration does not end there.
Equifax persisted for days in charging many people for the privilege of freezing their credit files.
Such a freeze is helpful because a new creditor cannot obtain a credit report on a person who has one and thus cannot loan money to a criminal impersonating that person.
Equifax eventually relented and said it would stop charging fees for freezes, even as its horror show of a website was still charging fees days after the announcement.
Richard Russell of the Bronx questioned whether Equifax might have an incentive to be casual about security so that it could turn around later and charge what amounted amounts to protection money.
Isnt that what this credit freeze is essentially?
he asked in an email to me this week.
In many parts of the world, this would be labeled extortion.
It was only when I searched my Equifax-related email for the words fear and scared that I fully understood just how defeated so many people felt about walking around with data leeches permanently attached to their wallets.
Diane Beeney, who lives in York, Neb., said in an interview that she couldnt even bring herself to put the last six digits of her Social Security number into Equifaxs website  which is what the company demanded right off the bat of people who wanted to determine whether their information had been compromised.
Im not very tech savvy, but Im very tech wary, she said.
There is just too much of this stuff out there that nobody has any control over.
For the moment, she has no idea what the status of her data is, because Equifax has not directly informed people who may have been affected by the breach.
It could send them letters, but it has chosen not to so far.
Many of those who have tried to protect themselves in the wake of the breach have been left feeling as though they are not in good hands.
Consider the revelation that the president of Equifaxs information solutions unit in the United States and its chief financial officer sold stock after the breach was discovered but before it was made public.
If they knew about the break-in, they violated insider trading laws.
The company says they did not know.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Even if you take Equifax at its word, despite its complete lack of credibility at this point, you are still left to wonder this: In what sort of company would Mr. Information Systems and Mr. Money not be in the loop on a problem like this?
Thats also horrifying, said Cristi Page of San Diego.
Theyre either unethical or theyre incompetent.
Neither of those inspire much confidence.
Imagine that you, like Mr. Schill, were a recent retiree.
You dont want to go back to work if you can help it.
Along comes the Equifax breach.
Soon, you are reading totally frightening but utterly real tales of criminals taking over investment and Social Security accounts, and you wonder about your carefully laid plans.
I dont want to see this go up in smoke, he said.
So what now?
Mr. Smith, Equifaxs chief executive, could be forced out at some point, perhaps to slink off to a cushy role at an investment firm, where his new colleagues will pat him on the back and say: You know, it could have happened to any of us.
The big banks and other companies will continue to hand our data to Equifax, because why wouldnt they?
But maybe they will be worried enough about their own companies potential losses to fraud that they will develop stronger security and identity verification measures that dont depend on the very data that just got stolen.
And could a few of them please step up, abandon the cloak of anonymity and offer some critical words about any part of this debacle?
So far, the only thing Ive heard out of the banks is a note from Citigroup asking that we not use its credit card images in our Equifax reporting.
As for the credit reporting industry, various elected officials and regulators now have it in their sights.
Im all for the free credit freezes that some politicians hope to require, so by all means sign the Identity Theft Resource Centers online petition in support of this cause.
It would be better, though, if officials at the three agencies did not wait to make changes until after they have been forced to march before television cameras in Washington.
Why not act now and make it easy for us to freeze all three of our major credit files at once, for free, without having to sign away our legal rights or subject ourselves to the companies ceaseless spam?
Given that its our data that they have, its high time we gained more control over who uses it and when.
Like all tech leaders, Mr. Zuckerberg is often hailed as a visionary, but his primary talent is as a reactor.
His true skill is not in seeing ahead, but in looking back and fixing where Facebook has failed.
And whats noteworthy is that when he marshals Facebooks considerable resources to address a problem, Mr. Zuckerberg has a track record of making things right.
I am not asking you to blindly accept that Facebook will be able to completely address the role it plays in modern propaganda wars.
On Russian meddling specifically, it took Facebook more than 10 months after the election to reveal that Russian trolls had bought ads through Facebook, and then it further dragged its feet on deciding to make those ads available to Congress.
Whats more, Mr. Zuckerbergs initial reaction to the question of Facebooks role in the election was marked by a reflexive defensiveness.
Personally, I think the idea that fake news on Facebook, which is a very small amount of the content, influenced the election in any way  I think is a pretty crazy idea, he said at a tech conference days after last years presidential election.
Since then, he has slowly  too slowly  come around to the idea that social media may not be the force for good in the world that he and other optimists always promised.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But it is worth noting that this sort of thing has happened before.
Throughout Facebooks history, on questions of privacy and advertising and business strategy, he has repeatedly fallen behind, then issued blog posts begging for another chance to put things right.
Often these messages conform to a template that he has honed over the years.
He will usually begin with a note of reflection, sometimes issuing an outright apology.
Often, he will underline Facebooks central tenet of transparency and openness: Calm down.
Breathe.
We hear you, he wrote in 2006, in one of the earliest of these addresses (people were very upset that Facebook had begun News Feed; what innocent times).
Next, he will offer a specific plan for the future, often soliciting feedback from users.
And he tends to end on a ringing plea for another chance, as he did this week: It is a new challenge for internet communities to deal with nation states attempting to subvert elections, he said in his address on Thursday.
But if thats what we must do, we are committed to rising to the occasion.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This promise reminded me of a very different but equally daunting problem that Facebook faced five years ago.
It had just floated its stock on the public markets, and things were not looking good.
For the first time in its blessed rise, experts were questioning the social networks future.
Facebook was born as a website on desktop browsers, but the world was moving to mobile phones  and there was little evidence that Facebook had the technical or cultural expertise to move along with them.
Mr. Zuckerberg has admitted that he was late to notice the problem; as late as 2012, the company had fewer than 20 people on its mobile team.
Then, finally, after much prodding by investors, Mr. Zuckerberg came around.
He tore up the companys old mobile strategy and brought in new leadership to manage a new one.
Getting Facebooks mobile apps working perfectly became the companys top priority  not just for a handful of teams, but for everyone who worked at Facebook, from Mr. Zuckerberg and Ms. Sandberg on down.
Mobile is everyones job, Mr. Zuckerberg told the company.
It was a do-or-die moment  and Facebook did.
At first slowly and then quicker than anyone might have guessed, more people began to use Facebook on their phones  which drove more advertisers to place ads on Facebooks mobile apps.
Soon, Facebooks mobile growth eclipsed that of every other social app, and it became indomitable.
Today, of the more than two billion people who use Facebook every month, most use it on their phones  and nearly 90 percent of Facebooks advertising revenue comes from mobile devices.
The latest series of scandals engulfing Facebook has not affected its business, which under Ms. Sandbergs leadership remains brisk.
But they present no less of an existential problem.
Facebooks main asset is us, its users; how we users and lawmakers perceive Facebooks effect on our lives  and on our democracies and national security  is a crucial factor in its future.
In addition to possible regulatory oversight of its advertising engine, theres a more straightforward worry that we will all become wary of the companys might  and will think twice about letting it get ever deeper into our lives, as it is wont to do.
A friend and mentor who knows Mr. Zuckerberg well told me recently that his greatest skill is his ability to learn from his mistakes.
He was late to appreciate how the worlds most-used social service might be used for ill. Now that he finally seems to understand the problem, there may be hope that he can do something about it.
I dont feel this is a risky proposition, because I know myself and know what I can do, she said.
And I know that Im about to launch the show that I was born to do.
This is what I was meant to do.
Ms. Kelly, 46, did provide some details about the show.
She said she did not plan to talk all that much about politics.
Her show will have a mix of celebrity guests  Robert Redford, Jane Fonda, and the casts of This Is Us and Will & Grace will be on during her first week  along with segments dedicated to what she described as regular people.
There will be a studio audience of about 150 people.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Kelly said she opened a rehearsal show on Wednesday by touching on the earthquake in Mexico City and the hurricane in Puerto Rico before quickly moving on to discuss the open letter that Serena Williams wrote to her mother, which has gone viral.
In a recent promo for the show, Ms. Kelly said she hoped NBCs new 9 a.m. hour would be fun and uplifting and empowering  that makes people feel fists in the air at the end of it.
Her show on Fox News often felt more like a fist to the face.
Ms. Kelly rose to fame  in conservative and liberal circles alike  for her withering cross-examinations of her guests.
Her 9 p.m. show was No.
1 in the time slot.
Photo

But she suggested that the job, toward the end, wasnt bringing her joy anymore.
(Over the course of a 40-minute interview, she said joy, joyful or joyous nine times.)
Still, Fox News was prepared to pay her more than $20 million a year for the job she wasnt born to do.
NBC also made an impressive offer, somewhere north of $15 million.
If I had sat there saying, I have job security here at Fox News, theyre not going to fire me, theyre going to pay me very well, that would have been a decision based on fear, she said.
Fear of the unknown, fear of failure.
And thats an unhealthy place from which to make any decision.
Though she had a Sunday newsmagazine show in the summer (and that will return next spring, she said), the centerpiece of her NBC deal is the morning show.
Her pivot to the daytime format feels like a reboot after years in the political maelstrom, though she will not call it that.
I think its the presentation of the whole me, Ms. Kelly said.
Its not like I am changing.
Im just sharing more of who I am.
My friends and my family would say, Youre going to see the Megyn we know.
For me, it truly is all about pursuing more joy.
Thats the reason we are here.
On a recent appearance on The Ellen DeGeneres Show, she got a crash course on what her new life will look like: dancing in the stands, donning a sumo wrestler fat suit, cooking.
Photo

Ms. DeGeneres is good at producing laughs from her audience.
Megyn Kelly Today has pledged to do the same.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Our viewers at 9 want to be informed, they want to be inspired, they want to laugh, said Jackie Levin, the executive producer of the show and a Today veteran.
I think most importantly people want to laugh a little bit more.
Thats what we hope to do.
The competition will be stiff.
In the most recent weekly ratings, Live With Kelly and Ryan averaged three million viewers, its best viewership in months.
And that celebrity-driven morning show has no shortage of stars in the coming weeks, including Harrison Ford, Viola Davis and Kate Winslet.
Ms. Kelly acknowledged that ratings were significant (I understand that this is still a business and the show doesnt get to stay on the air if it doesnt rate) but said she wouldnt be paying attention to them the way she did with her top-rated Fox News show.
After all, she has her dream job now.
And why exactly is this her dream job?
Its because I am a person who is searching, she said.
And always has been.
I am searching for my joy and more love and more wellness.
Always have been.
Finally my job is going to align with my soul, with my heart, with my reason for being.
Its not going to just be a paycheck because it happens to be something I do well.
As a result of these holes, investors trades on certain venues may be more vulnerable to hacking than on others.
And because of the interconnectedness of the technologies supporting the nations stock trading systems, hackers gaining access to one venue could easily disrupt entire swaths of the market.
The concerns center on an S.E.C.
rule written in 2014 that was intended to strengthen the technological underpinnings of the United States securities markets, making them safer for investors.
The rule, known as Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity, or Reg SCI, came after a series of troubling market system failures.
One was the $440 million glitch in 2012 at Knight Capital, a big stock trading firm.
Other technical breakdowns occurred the next year on Nasdaq; on one occasion, all trading in that market was halted for three hours.
The S.E.C.
rule required exchanges and certain other trading venues to have comprehensive procedures ensuring the robustness and resiliency of their technological systems.
Bolstering cybersecurity measures was a component of the rule.
Stock exchanges like IEX, Nasdaq and the New York Stock Exchange had to comply with the new requirements and make their operations available for audits by the S.E.C.
These exchanges also had to tell the commission when problems arose, including system intrusions, a crucial mechanism for investor protection.
But many large trading venues did not have to comply with the rule.
Among them were firms that buy stock orders from retail brokerage firms, known as wholesalers or internalizers.
Certain alternative trading systems were also let off the hook, including some that are operated by large brokerage companies like Morgan Stanley.
Among the entities that dont have to adhere to the cybersecurity rule are firms that handle vast volumes of trades in the nations equity markets.
Citadel Securities, the broker-dealer unit of the powerhouse founded by Kenneth Griffin, is an example.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
A division of the company  Citadel Execution Services  is whats known as a wholesale firm.
It buys investors orders from retail brokerage firms that dont have their own trading operations and executes the transactions against stocks it holds in inventory.
Some 200 brokerage firms, including Charles Schwab, Scottrade and E-Trade, sell their customers orders to Citadel.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

These firms send Citadel almost three million equity orders a day totaling almost 1.7 billion shares, according to figures cited in an S.E.C.
enforcement action filed against the firm in January.
These orders accounted for about 35 percent of the average daily volume of retail stock trades in the United States, the S.E.C.
It seems odd, given the volume of trades handled by Citadel, that the S.E.C.
would not require the firm to follow its heightened cybersecurity rules.
So I asked the S.E.C.
about this decision.
A spokeswoman declined to comment.
I also asked Citadel about its internal protections against cyberattacks.
A spokesman declined to comment.
A spokesman for Morgan Stanley declined to comment about precautions the bank had taken against digital attacks on their alternative trading systems.
But since the company qualifies as a systemically important financial institution in regulators eyes, at least its operations are watched more closely.
Also disquieting about the rule: Nowhere does the agency publish the list of entities that comply with the systems integrity rule.
If this regulation was supposed to protect investors, as the S.E.C.
contended when it put it into effect, why arent investors allowed to know which trading venues have strong cybersystems in place and which may not?
This question may come up on Thursday, when Mr. Clayton, the S.E.C.
chairman, is scheduled to testify before the Senate banking committee.
One of the committees members, Mark R. Warner, a Virginia Democrat who is a co-founder of the bipartisan Senate Cybersecurity Caucus, recently expressed his concern over the lack of transparency in the rule.
Investors are unable to determine whether their orders are being routed to market centers which are being held to the requirement of having a strong, audited cybersecurity program, Mr. Warner wrote in a letter to Mr. Clayton on Aug. 1.
If compromised, these market centers could destabilize markets by not having the protections in place that the S.E.C.
has outlined in Reg SCI to strengthen the integrity of our markets.
The S.E.C.
was right to require market trading venues to tighten their security systems.
Investors rely heavily on these entities.
But exempting major firms may mean it did only half the job.
And surely investors have the right to know which firms are meeting the heightened standards.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Warner thinks so.
Efforts to strengthen our nations financial infrastructure, such as Reg SCI, are critical to financial stability and the security of our country, he said in a statement on Thursday.
Providing investors with information about which market centers are subject to Reg SCI and whether they are in compliance would encourage market center adoption of strong cybersecurity standards and help investors protect themselves from cyberrisks.
A ban on operating in one of its largest markets would certainly hit Ubers bottom line.
The company said it had 40,000 drivers and 3.5 million customers in London who used its app at least once every three months.
Mr. Khosrowshahi, in a Twitter post on Friday afternoon, acknowledged that Uber was far from perfect and urged city regulators to work out a solution with the company.
Less than a year ago, a British tribunal ruled that Uber could no longer treat its drivers as self-employed contractors and would have to meet tougher labor standards, including offering holiday pay and pensions.
Fit and proper is a benchmark that Britain applies across different industries and its charitable organizations to ensure that people or organizations meet the requirements of their industry or specialty.
Ubers approach and conduct demonstrate a lack of corporate responsibility in relation to a number of issues which have potential public safety and security implications, Transport for London said in a statement.
Tests typically assess factors like an individual or companys honesty, transparency and competence, though there is no formal exam.
In Ubers case, Transport for London said it had examined issues of how the company dealt with serious criminal offenses, how it conducted background checks on drivers and its justification for a software program called Greyball, which could be used to block regulatory bodies from gaining full access to the app.
In May, Transport for London extended Ubers license by four months as it considered whether the company met that threshold.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Providing an innovative service is not an excuse for it being unsafe, Londons mayor, Sadiq Khan, wrote in The Guardian soon after the ruling was announced.
The regulatory environment is critical in protecting Londoners safety, maintaining workplace standards for drivers and sustaining a vibrant taxi and private hire market with space for a range of providers to flourish.
Ubers London license will now expire on Sept. 30.
But it can continue to operate in the city during the appeal process in Britains courts.
Tom Elvidge, Ubers general manager in London, said the agency and Mr. Khan had caved in to a small number of people who want to restrict consumer choice.
Uber conducted background checks using the methods used for black-cab drivers, he said.
Our pioneering technology has gone further to enhance safety with every trip tracked and recorded by GPS, Mr. Elvidge said, adding that the company had a dedicated team who work closely with the Metropolitan Police.
He also said Greyball had not been used to block scrutiny by regulators or the police in London.
The move by regulators in London picks up the political mood of the times, said Tony Travers, a professor at the London School of Economics.
London, like New York and Paris, is full of urban progressives who, even if they use Uber, feel guilty when they read things about it that they dont like.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
On Thursday, a Dutch appeals court upheld a ban of an Uber service in the Netherlands, saying the companys low-cost UberPop ride-hailing offering had been operated illegally.
The French authorities took a similar case to the Court of Justice of the European Union, and last year Uber and two executives were convicted and fined the equivalent of nearly $500,000 in France in relation to UberPop.
In New York, Mayor Bill de Blasio has criticized Ubers rapid expansion for making congestion worse on city streets.
But in 2015, his administration backed down from a fight with Uber by abruptly dropping a plan for a cap on the number of Uber vehicles operating within the city.
Until now, London had been one of Ubers most notable success stories outside the United States.
It debuted in the city in 2012, just before the Summer Olympics, initially with a luxury service.
It added UberX, which competes more directly with the citys storied black taxis, a year later.
The company now operates in more than 40 cities and towns across Britain.
Its arrival here, however, created a clash almost immediately with the black cabs, which trace their roots to 1634.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Black-cab drivers, who earn licenses by memorizing some 25,000 streets and 100,000 landmarks for an exacting test known as The Knowledge, complain that Uber drivers are under-regulated.
Many fear that the rivalry will put them out of business: Uber fares are about 30 percent lower than those of black cabs.
The conflict also involves tensions over ethnicity and class.
Most black-cab drivers are white native-born Britons, while many Uber drivers are immigrants.
Uber has said it receives hundreds of complaints a month from its drivers about remarks from black-cab drivers.
Among the insults hurled are Uber slave!
and Go back to your country!
Many black-cab drivers have now signed up with competing apps like Gett and MyTaxi, which like Uber allow passengers to hail rides via their smartphones.
Londoners can also choose from a wide variety of private-hire services, known as minicabs.
Black-cab drivers, and the unions representing them, cheered Fridays ruling.
Jeffrey Marcus, who has been driving a London taxi for 42 years, described it as long overdue.
Weve got a brilliant taxi service here, Mr. Marcus, 67, said.
You pay a little more for a licensed taxi, but you get the service.
The reaction online to the Transport for London ruling, however, was generally negative.
Hours after the decision was announced, a Change.org petition that was started and heavily promoted by Uber within its app and via emails to customers had over 200,000 signatures.
Ahmad Shoaib, an Uber driver, said the service was being unfairly targeted.
I know there have been some problems with drivers, but most of us are good and reliable and play by the rules, he said.
It is not fair to punish everyone because of the mistakes of one or two people.
Mr. Shoaib switched to Uber from a minicab company in Croydon, in South London, after he saw how much work friends were getting from the ride-hailing service.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

London needs Uber, he said, its cheap and easy.
Jewelry, of course, has an intrinsic value.
Its made of gems like diamonds, emeralds, rubies and sapphires and set in metals like platinum, gold and silver that are valuable in their own right.
Many pieces also have sentimental value, having come from family members or been given on a special occasion.
But the pieces with the most investment potential have a level of craftsmanship in addition to scarcity that makes them stand out from the beautiful baubles that are produced year after year  and appreciate beyond the value of their metals and gems.
These are not the run-of-the-mill pieces that mall jeweler might sell.
In fact, people buying these pieces would be hard-pressed to see significant appreciation over time.
Photo

You can melt the metal and take out the stones, but when you talk about collectible jewelry, you want to make sure the provenance of the piece is provable, said Muffie Potter Aston, a New York socialite and former executive vice president of marketing and advertising for Van Cleef & Arpels.
She singled out a pink tourmaline ring designed by Paloma Picasso for Tiffany.
When she showed it to an appraiser, she said, He said you couldnt buy that pink tourmaline alone today for what you paid for the ring 10 years ago.
Alison Minton, a philanthropist in Manhattan, bought a limited edition Alhambra necklace by Van Cleef & Arpels in malachite 10 years ago.
The clover style of the necklace has become well known, but the company made only 100 of the necklaces and numbered each one.
Ms. Minton sold it recently for more than $12,000, which was double what she had paid for it.
It was a great investment, and I wore it, she said.
From her grandmother, who was part of the family that founded Bloomingdales, she inherited a rarer piece of jewelry  with a better story.
In 1964, her grandmother went to the Worlds Fair in Queens; when she came home, her apartment had been burglarized and her jewelry was gone.
Instead of trying to replace the stolen items, she bought a single piece: an 18-karat gold bracelet with rubies and sapphires from Tiffany.
It cost about $400 at the time.
When Ms. Minton took it to Tiffany for a repair in 2002, the jeweler valued it at $9,000.
I dont know what its worth today, she said.
I dont wear it often because its so special.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In the annals of rare jewelry for sale sits Pope Paul VIs ring and cross.
After the pontiff addressed the United Nations General Assembly in 1965, he donated his diamond-encrusted papal ring and diamond and emerald cross to the U.N., so they could be sold to help the poor.
At one point, the stunt driver Evel Knievel owned them.
Bill Rau of M.S.
Rau Antiques said he had acquired the set through a couple in North Carolina.
It is priced at $1.9 million.
Photo

But although the set is one of a kind  and contains what Mr. Rau estimated to be $1.1 million of stones  he has been trying to sell it since 2014, showing that even unique jewelry can also be illiquid.
Like any object, from art to cars to jewelry, the fallback position if the investment fails is to consider the aesthetics of the piece.
And thats a benefit, because sometimes the jewelry turns out to be worth less than the value of its stones and metal because of that very same uniqueness.
It could be difficult to wear or it could be valuable but out of fashion.
David Webb, a jewelry maker active in the 1950s to early 1970s, designed a necklace with 682 karats of opals and used smaller emeralds and diamonds to separate the pearl-shaped stones.
The 36-inch necklace is for sale at $335,000.
For people approaching jewelry for investment purposes, strategy and advice count for a lot.
First, they have to think of the brand.
There are a half-dozen jewelry designers that are known worldwide for their quality.
That recognition makes reselling their jewelry easier.
Every time something from the 1920s, 1950s and 1970s from Van Cleef, Cartier, Boucheron comes up for auction, they always do significantly better than they did the first time around, Mr. Kadakia of Christies said.
Of course, not all brands make great pieces all of the time (and many lesser-known designers have produced fantastic pieces, like Mr. Webbs opal necklace, that stand out).
But for the big houses, time periods matter for investing.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Of all the periods people want to collect, I always tell them Art Deco of the 1920s and 1930s, said Diane Lloyde Roth, owner of LArmoire, a store in New Canaan, Conn., that has been selling investment-quality jewelry for three decades.
It was probably the most beautiful period of all in jewelry production.
Photo

She recalled some of the pieces she sold to Anne Lichtblau, a philanthropist who died last year.
Mrs. Lichtblau bought a Van Cleef mystery set ruby bracelet for $140,000 in 2003; her estate sold it at auction last year for $348,500.
Mrs. Lichtblau also bought a 1920s emerald, ruby and diamond bracelet by Oscar Heyman & Brothers in 1998 for $90,000.
It sold for $223,500 at auction last year.
She always wanted Art Deco, Ms. Roth said.
She bought what she loved, but she spent real money on jewelry.
Scarcity is important.
Colored diamonds fit into this category because they are not as plentiful as white diamonds.
Ms. Minton said she bought a bracelet from Verdura that the jeweler had made as a prototype  and jokes that she keeps checking with the jeweler to make sure it hasnt made another one.
The location where a jeweler made a piece can also affect its value.
For instance, vintage Cartier pieces made in France are worth more than Cartier pieces made in New York, Ms. Roth said.
When it comes to Tiffany, which of the jewelers designers made the piece matters considerably.
Pieces made by Jean Schlumberger in the 1950s and 60s are more valuable than other Tiffany pieces from the same time because of his style but also his limited production.
And jewelry made by Louis Comfort Tiffany, son of the company founder Charles Tiffany, from the 1880s to 1910 commands a greater premium still.
He is known for his stained-glass lamps and precious objects, but Mr. Rau said he made about 100 pieces of jewelry as well.
Yet that scarcity and a lack of knowledge among buyers increases the need to be aware of fakes.
I go to the cities where people have worn Tiffany or Van Cleef through the years, and family members have sold them, said Allison Weiss Brady, a fund-raiser in New York.
One of the keys is buying it from someone you trust, she said.
But even then, she asks for documents proving the pieces history and also the basics on the gemstones.
Contemporary jewelry is a tougher market for buyers to predict investment potential.
The top houses are still producing exceptional pieces, but given the high cost of metals and stones, many of the pieces are lighter and less intricate than a generation ago.
When all of your raw materials go up, somethings got to give somewhere, Ms. Roth said.
There are exceptions, like the Parisian designer JAR, the initials of Joel Arthur Rosenthal.
When Ellen Barkin, the actress, sold jewelry given to her by her ex-husband, the billionaire Ronald O. Perelman, she had 17 pieces by JAR, who produces fewer than 100 pieces a year.
One pair of JAR earrings at last years auction fetched $1.8 million.
In a phone conversation, Professor Bessembinder reminded me that the stock market is a moving target and that his rankings, while valid through the end of 2016, dont capture the sharp movements of this calendar year.
In his 2016 rankings, Exxon Mobil, not Apple, appears at the top, with net wealth creation of more than $1 trillion.
Apple lags at about $745 billion.
But it has been a wild year.
Exxon Mobil shares have declined more than 11 percent at a time of weak energy prices, while Apple, which just introduced a raft of new iPhones, is on a spectacular stock surge, gaining more than 37 percent.
Run the numbers as I did, and its clear that at this moment, Apple has pulled ahead of Exxon Mobil, with total net wealth creation of somewhere in the vicinity of $1 trillion.
Counting dividends, Exxon Mobils losses in the stock market have reduced its total to a bit over $910 billion.
(Note that, as a technical matter, Professor Bessembinder defines net wealth creation as total stock returns in excess of one-month Treasury bill returns, which averaged an annualized 3.38 percent, so the actual stock returns for Apple, Exxon, and the others are even higher than indicated.)
Its remarkable that Apple has generated so much wealth in such a short period of time, he said.
Exxon has had decades to pile up those returns.
Exxon is among the top wealth-creating companies that have been publicly trading  under the name of a predecessor, Standard Oil of New Jersey  since the inception of Professor Bessembinders tally in July 1926.
Others include General Electric, IBM, Altria, Coca-Cola, DuPont, PepsiCo and Schlumberger.
He relied on a database developed at the University of Chicago, known as CRSP, for the Center for Research in Security Prices, that contains virtually all publicly traded stocks in the United States.
The Center for Research uses rigorous and logical criteria to determine when stocks enter and depart its listings, with some results that may seem surprising at first glance.
General Motors, for example, ranks eighth.
It was publicly traded in 1926, but the list says it ceased to exist in June 2009.
A company called General Motors exists today, of course, but as Chloe Fu, senior support and relationship manager at the Center for Research in Security Prices, explained it, G.M.s bailout and bankruptcy led the center to declare the old company terminated, with a new G.M.
coming to life in June 2009.
Consequently, the new G.M.
returns arent included in the total for G.M.
on the list.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The list is a fascinating ranking of big winners in the stock market.
But for a variety of technical reasons, it isnt a straightforward table of the greatest wealth generators in market history.
For example, the long-term gains generated by Exxon Mobil and its predecessors are understated because of the databases limited duration and strict criteria.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Exxon Mobils wealth in the list doesnt include Mobils, which Professor Bessembinders listing says, ceased to exist in November 1999, when it merged with Exxon.
And going back further, both Exxon and Mobil were among the descendants of the Standard Oil trust, established by John D. Rockefeller and his partners in the 19th century.
The total wealth generated by the cluster of companies derived at least partially from the trust  which also include Amoco and Chevron  doesnt appear in a single notation, because of the lists logic.
Other apparent oddities are explained by Professor Bessembinders application of the centers criteria.
There are two companies on the list called AT&T, for example, neither capturing the total net wealth generated by an investment in the old American Telephone and Telegraph Company at its 19th century inception.
To start with, the old AT&T, a.k.a.
Ma Bell, is ranked 17th.
It is said to have gone out of existence in November 2005.
Another AT&T appears in the 33rd spot.
That company came to life in March 1984 as Southwestern Bell, spun off from the old AT&T as a result of an antitrust suit.
A descendant of Southwestern Bell bought the AT&T name in 2005 and operates under it today.
Other AT&T cousins are on the list: Verizon, as well as Comcast, which resulted from a merger between AT&T Broadband and an older company also known as Comcast.
The listings for most of the recently created companies are less tangled.
As I wrote in July, Amazon, which started trading in 1997, has soared to the 14th spot.
Although it hasnt been in existence long compared with Exxon Mobil, its annualized return is the highest in the list, 37.4 percent through December.
A group of young companies have also had remarkable results.
Facebook, which started trading in June 2012, is the youngest on the list, with an annualized return of 34.5 percent.
Visa, which had its initial public offering of stock in 2008, is the second-newest company, with a 21 percent annualized return, followed by Alphabet (Google), ranked 11th with a 24.9 percent annualized return.
And then there is that great wealth machine, Microsoft, ranked as the third-greatest wealth creator.
Since 1986, it has had an annualized return of 25 percent, making its founder, Bill Gates, the richest man in the world, with a net worth of more than $87 billion, according to Bloomberg.
No list of wealth-generating companies is complete without Berkshire Hathaway.
It ranks 12th, just behind Alphabet, with an annualized return of 22.6 percent.
By comparison, Exxon Mobils annualized return was only 11.94 percent.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Why is Berkshires annualized return so much higher?
It is because the return doesnt include decades of mediocre performance for the old textile company Berkshire Hathaway, which started in 1929.
The Center for Research says the Berkshire on this list started in November 1976.
It was a holding company for Warren E. Buffett, who guided it to fabulous gains.
Thanks to Berkshire, Mr. Buffett is a rich man, with a net worth estimated by Bloomberg at $79 billion.
Anyone who invested in Apple or Microsoft or, really, in any of these companies at their inception and just held on did extraordinarily well.
You might look at that record and conclude that you should just buy the best companies as a foolproof way to get rich.
If only it were that easy.
How do you find those companies?
Not here.
The problem is, I have no idea which companies will generate the best returns over the next 10 or 20 or 30 years,  Professor Bessembinder said.
Probably it will be some companies weve never heard of.
Maybe it will be companies that dont even exist now.
This list is worth studying for understanding the past.
But, unfortunately, its not a guide to the future, except for this: In a market where most of the gains are attributable to a few big winners that are hard to identify in advance, Professor Bessembinder said, it makes a lot of sense to diversify your position  to avoid the danger of omitting the big winners from your portfolio.
As weapons production increased, the manufacture of autos and electronics shifted partly or wholly overseas.
So did the production of other civilian products  leaving behind weapons bought by the Defense Department as an ever bigger share of the nations factory output.
While President Dwight D. Eisenhower warned of the perils of the military-industrial complex in his farewell address in January 1961, the Vietnam War accentuated this reliance on weapons production, which became embedded in annual budgets.
That may well continue in the years ahead.
In his first budget proposal in May, Mr. Trump called for significant cuts in domestic spending but roughly a 10 percent increase in military outlays.
Given the history of recent decades, is it any wonder that we now have a president who, at least in part, equates making America strong again with an enhanced military equipped with the weaponry that an enhanced military requires?
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Public money flows to factory owners in many ways  often as a result of the frequent bidding by municipal governments to persuade a manufacturer to locate a factory in one community rather than another.
These auctions sometimes top $100 million per factory location.
A manufacturer who finally accepts a municipalitys bid collects tax breaks, a gift of land on which to put a factory and sometimes the cost of building and equipping the factory itself at taxpayers expense.
Cities and towns are that eager to have a factory, with its network of nearby suppliers and its relatively well-paying jobs  relative, that is, to the lower paying retail and service industry work that is often the alternative for high-school- or even junior-college-educated men and women.
That outlay of taxpayer money is concentrated in eight sectors of manufacturing, including ammunition, aircraft, guided missiles, shipbuilding and armored vehicles.
Shut down production in those areas and factory production in America, measured as value added, would shrink 10 percent or more, according to Richard Aboulafia, a vice president of the Teal Group, a defense consulting firm.
Mr. Aboulafia based his estimate, he said, on an analysis of the Defense Department budget and export data.
Dan Luria, research director of the Michigan Manufacturing Technology Center, concurred with those figures.
To put the matter graphically, factories in the United States churn out one rifle barrel for every nine auto fenders.
Cutting back on factory production isnt the direction the Trump administration has been going.
Instead, the promise is that  whatever goods they produce  the Trump eras factories will be big employers.
But the reality is that modern factories, even when they materialize, are highly automated, which helps to explain why the manufacturing work force has bumped along at less than 13 million for nearly a decade, according to the Labor Department, although factory output  including weapons production  keeps rising smartly.
These constraints make me yearn for the good old days just after World War II, when America seemed to have easier policy choices.
Even inexpensive trinkets were manufactured in America, and my mother, for one, ordered her children to stay away from a neighborhood boy whose parents had bought him a BB gun.
Disarmament ran deep in the late 1940s.
We didnt need to produce weapons, even BB guns, to keep manufacturing afloat.
Im afraid that we do now.
The debate over any visit proved irrelevant, however, when Mr. Trump weighed in on the subject with a tweet on Saturday.
The response from players was swift.
Several players in both leagues condemned the announcement, in a throwback of sorts to the days when political statements by star athletes like Muhammad Ali, Bill Russell, Tommie Smith and John Carlos were more common.
Potentially the boldest response to Mr. Trump came from the Warriors chief rival, LeBron James of the Cleveland Cavaliers:

Mr. Curry was also supported by Chris Paul, the Houston Rockets point guard, who also happens to be the president of the N.B.A.s players association.
While Mr. Curry has yet to respond, his teammate, the outspoken Draymond Green, unsurprisingly weighed in.
As an organization, the Warriors were far more politically reserved than Mr. Green, saying in a statement, In lieu of a visit to the White House, we have decided that well constructively use our trip to the nations capital in February to celebrate equality, diversity and inclusion  the values that we embrace as an organization.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
No stranger to controversy involving Mr. Trump, Jemele Hill, the ESPN host, also supported Mr. Curry.
Ms. Hill was recently embroiled in a debate centered on her reference to the president as a white supremacist, and his offices call for her firing.
Mr. Trump has found just as swift a response from players and personalities connected to the N.F.L.
over his comments about players like Colin Kaepernick who have sat or knelt during the national anthem to protest the treatment of black people by the police.
At a rally in Alabama, Trump said: Wouldnt you love to see one of these N.F.L.
owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, Get that son of a bitch off the field right now.
Hes fired!
Hes fired!
Among the players to respond to Trumps statements was Chris Conley, a wide receiver for the Kansas City Chiefs.
In a series of strongly-worded tweets, Martellus Bennett, a tight end for the Green Bay Packers, said he was fine with being fired for what he believes in and rejected the labels put on players by the president.
Richard Sherman, the outspoken Seattle Seahawks cornerback, said:

The topic seemed to elicit opinions from all over, with Sean Combs, the businessman and music mogul, asking N.F.L.
players to make a statement before tomorrows games.
And none other than Ed Asner, the 87-year-old actor, tackled the subject.
Amid all the chaos online, Ayesha Curry, the wife of Stephen, took the high road in the matter, refocusing the discussion on bigger events going on around the world.
These suddenly chic survival satchels, also known as go bags, are typically lightweight military-grade backpacks stocked with provisions for at least 72 hours.
Ready-made bug-out bags containing staples like water purification tablets, a 20-hour body warmer and a multifunction shovel are available on Amazon for under than $200.
Hard-core preppers, however, would never leave their survival up to a mouse click, which is why some sites suggest endless creative tweaks to the standard equipment.
Graywolf Survival recommends a chain-saw blade stashed in an Altoids tin to harvest firewood.
Survival Life touts feminine hygiene products, even for men, to soak up blood from wounds.
As long as the gear gets the job done, thats what matters, said Andrew Pontius, a marketing consultant and disaster preparedness instructor in Kansas City, Mo., who helps run a site called Bug Out Bag Academy.
Go for the Silver

Two years ago, Greece was forced to shutter banks and limit A.T.M.
withdrawals to 60 euros a day during a debt crisis that threatened to shatter Europes currency union.
In the United States, prominent authors like James Rickards, a hedge fund veteran, and David Stockman, once the budget director for the Reagan administration, insist that an even bigger crisis will soon tank Wall Street and torpedo the dollar.
No wonder so many preppers, some of them wearing pinstriped suits, consider gold and silver to be a crucial hedge against a crisis.
While Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies make news, many preppers are quietly packing their bug-out bags with rolls of pre-1965 American dimes, quarters or half-dollars, which are 90 percent silver and available from coin dealers and precious-metals websites (silver is currently about $17 an ounce).
My preferred form of precious metal post-financial collapse, that is, besides high-speed lead, wrote one prepper on SurvivalistBoards.com.
Unlike gold, which is hovering around $1,300 an ounce, these old silver coins come in small enough denominations to barter for a loaf of bread or a socket wrench in an economic Mad Max scenario.
Even so, some survivalists remain silver skeptics.
For $100, lets say you get five silver coins, said an urban preparedness expert who goes by the nom de guerre Selco.
Why not buy 100 cans of soup?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

3.
Alt-Currencies for the Apocalypse

Imagine a true economic apocalypse, one that makes the German hyperinflation of the 1920s, with its wheelbarrows of near-worthless paper currency, look like a hiccup.
To prepare for the worst worst-case scenario, some doomers prefer daily staples like tampons, vegetable seeds and cigarettes (that timeless prison medium of exchange) to silver or gold as an alt-currency.
Liquor, too  particularly in easy-to-swap airline bottles  would likely prove a hot commodity, since it not only deadens the pain of surviving in a post-apocalyptic wasteland, but, as a blogger named Survival Mom points out, also provides useful off-label functions as a disinfectant or an ingredient in herbal remedy tinctures.
Visions of a barter economy are not necessarily the stuff of doomer fever dreams, said Xavier Thomas, who runs the British site MoreThanJustSurviving.com with his wife, Elise.
If we look at examples of systematic social breakdowns, like Argentina in 2001, or the war in the Balkans, goods that people understood on an intrinsic level clearly carried the most value when trading  cans of food, gas, batteries, cheap Bic lighters, he said.
A good rule of thumb: If youd find it useful in an emergency, youll be able to find someone who will trade for it in an emergency.
Beyond Duck and Cover

When President Trump issued his threat to North Korea at the United Nations, many preppers had an almost Pavlovian response: to check their nuclear survival kit.
Ever since the backyard bomb shelter went the way of tail fins, survival in the face of mushroom clouds has seemed highly relative.
Some preppers place their faith in unproven home remedies, like bedsheets dusted with baby powder, which they hope will block X-rays, or generous helpings of turmeric mixed with black pepper, to inhibit tumor formation.
Others turn to basics, like Geiger counters, wallet-size RAD badges, potassium iodide tablets or a Seychelle radiological family water pitcher, which the manufacturer claims will filter out 99.99 percent of the major contaminants that can be found after a nuclear event.
Or people may just want to stock up on Snuggies, chocolate Easter bunnies, Hummel figurines or vintage Backstreet Boys paraphernalia, which will do about as much good in the event of a direct strike.
The Other Bug-Out Bag

In the event of apocalypse, bring condoms.
This may sound like a slogan from a fraternity party T-shirt, but survivalists absolutely adore condoms.
Featherweight, ultracompact and durable, condoms (nonlubricated, please) can be used as a makeshift canteen to store water, a fire starter or as elastic bands for an improvised slingshot to hunt small game, according to Creek Stewart, a survival instructor and television host.
When inflated, they can also be used as fishing bobbers or signaling devices for semaphore, according to SensiblePrepper.
Oh, and theyre also great for the obvious use, too.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

6.
Armed to the Teeth, but With What?
Photo

Should law and order on the streets break down after, say, a massive hurricane or nuclear-reactor meltdown, that condom slingshot might come in handy in New York, where possession of the most fundamental survivalist self-defense staple  the gun  is highly restricted by law.
(The same goes for brass knuckles, nunchucks, ninja stars, switchblade knives, wrist-brace slingshots and, that D.I.Y.
prepper favorite, a paint ball pistol loaded with ghost-chili-powder balls.)
So what is a defenseless, law-abiding survivalist to do?
Prepper bibles like 100 Deadly Skills, by Clint Emerson, a former Navy SEAL, are filled with improvised alternative weapons, like a collapsible umbrella lined with wrenches, which is not illegal to possess, a New York City Police Department spokesman said, but would be considered a weapon if you used it on someone.
Sure, you could master jiu-jitsu.
But if its really on, hand-to-hand self-defense will only take you so far, said Jason Charles, a firefighter and organizer of the New York City Preppers Network.
To balance legality with lethality in a bug-out bag, he said, you have to go simpler  hammers, hatchets, certain heavy tools.
That roll of old silver quarters might come in handy, too.
Paddling to Safety

Photo

Manhattanites face challenges unknown to their Western counterparts hunkering in remote desert bunkers.
Their home turf, after all, is not only a prime target, but an island.
In the event of a cataclysmic emergency, bridges and tunnels may be closed, or choked off by marauding mobs, forcing survivors to consider waterborne escape.
A lightweight, folding kayak like the Oru Beach LT is a savvy, albeit expensive option ($1,299), since it weighs 30 pounds (easy enough to tote to the Hudson River if Lyft is offline) and collapses to the size of a suitcase  perfect for those tiny Upper West Side closets.
Sure, kayak pros counsel against newbies attempting a Hudson crossing.
There are strong tidal currents, few places to safely launch or land, and an abundance of commercial and ferry transit traffic, said Randall Henriksen of the New York Kayak Company.
But if the choice is armed mobs or choppy waters, many New Yorkers may reach for a paddle.
Deliverance From Above

Since the Sept. 11 attacks, many cubicle dwellers have been haunted by fears of being stuck in a skyscraper when disaster strikes.
In fact, tragic images from the World Trade Center inspired a micro-industry of high-rise-escape options.
There are now escape chutes (basically, giant collapsible fabric tubes for shinnying down) and small parachutes.
Photo

The SOS Parachute (about $2,400) is compact enough to store in a cubicle, opens in about two seconds and is designed to work for the 11th floor and higher.
Granted, the parachute is exactly not 82nd Airborne-grade, and a 200-pound man might find the landing a little rough.
You may twist an ankle, said Nicolas Havett, a company executive.
But in a situation serious enough to warrant a parachute, thats a deal that many would take.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

9. Who Are You Calling Rocket Man?
Photo

They were a science-fiction fantasy in the Bond movie Thunderball, a space-age gag in Gilligans Island.
But a half-century later, jet packs actually exist.
A California company called JetPack Aviation unveiled a functioning turbojet version two years ago, capable of staying aloft for 10 minutes, traveling at speeds up to 100 miles per hour.
Current models are available only to the military, but David Mayman, the companys founder, said he plans to introduce a commercial version within 18 months.
Hard-core doomers need not drain their airplane-liquor-bottle stash to envision the potential: Imagine New York after, say, an electromagnetic pulse attack that wipes out the power grid (like the kind North Korea recently threatened).
The bridges and streets resemble a scene from the old John Carpenter movie Escape From New York, but the privileged few can soar across the Hudson to safety (or at least New Jersey).
From the time you push the button, you could be in the air in less than 30 seconds, Mr. Mayman said.
Sure, there is the cost  about $250,000, which the company is hoping to bring down to the price of a luxury car.
For now, just think of it as the survivalists Maybach.
No Place Like Dome

Photo

Sandy was not the first hurricane to devastate entire sections of New York.
In 1893, a hurricane blew through the city with such force that it wiped an entire island  Hog Island, a glittering resort near the Rockaways  off the map.
In the event of a megadisaster that leaves parts of the city uninhabitable, survivors might require cheap, stormproof shelter to start a new life.
In the best of times, prefabricated dome shelters receive high marks from environmentalists and penny pinchers alike because of their low cost and minimal environmental impact.
A company called Intershelter sells igloo-shape pleasure domes that call to mind Luke Skywalkers old pad on Tatooine, but cost only $12,000 for one big enough to include a kitchen; it can be thrown together in a few hours, to make an instant hunting or fishing lodge.
But in the worst of times, this dome, built to sustain hurricane strength winds or earthquakes, makes great relief housing for disaster victims and, in theory, would make great bug-out bunkers for urbanites looking to build a survivalist compound on the fly.
The dome houses are so rugged, according the companys founder, Don Kubley, you could buy one today and your grandkids will be playing in it.
One can only hope.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Should disaster not strike?
They make a great man cave or backyard cabana.
Pets or Meat

In the event of a breakdown of the food supply that leaves the shelves of Fairway bare and Le Coucou a ghost town on a Saturday night, you will still have to eat.
Often.
That is why many survivalists are placing their hopes of sustenance in rabbit, a high-protein, low-fat meat that is also being embraced as the new chicken by sustainable food types including Michael Pollan.
Raising meat rabbits is one of the most space-efficient means of growing livestock for meat, according to the site Survivalist 101.
By livestock standards, rabbits are relatively clean and quiet, too.
They can survive on table-scrap vegetables or even grass, and as a bonus, yield valuable fur for improvised winter clothing.
And boy do they breed.
A doe can produce up to 50 kits a year, yielding 250 pounds of meat, according to researchers at the Penn State Extension.
Beyond Medieval Times

To master archery and broadsword combat; to learn to manufacture fabric, bread, ceramic cookware and wood furniture by hand; to perfect the preindustrial arts of iron craft and tanning: Yes, there are worse things to carry into a post-apocalyptic world than a membership card to the Society for Creative Anachronism.
In normal times, this international historical-re-enactment organization seems like little more than a harmless bunch of Renaissance Faire types playing dress up on weekends and celebrating the arts, skills and costumes of pre-17th-century Europe.
But should Armageddon arrive  say, in the form of a limited nuclear exchange, global pandemic or cyber mega-attack  these hobbies could mean your survival.
In other words, chivalry may not be dead after all.
The Final Frontier

There is bugging out, and then there is really bugging out.
In a scorched-earth scenario where even a jet pack is not enough to escape harms way, preppers with deep pockets and a taste for Arthur C. Clarke might consider the ultimate escape: launching their DNA into space.
Celestis, a company specializing in memorial spaceflights (sending cremated remains into space), recently introduced genetic spaceflight.
For $12,500, for example, the cosmologically minded can send their DNA (a mouth swab or hair sample) into space on a true mission of exploration, aboard a spacecraft on a permanent celestial journey well beyond the moon.
Who knows  some ultra-intelligent alien being may discover it in the future, and use your genetic code to reanimate a race of humans on a distant planet.
Lets just hope those humans dont choose to blow themselves up.
Photo

A festering contract dispute between Disney and the nations fourth-largest cable distributor broke into public view on Friday night, with Disney warning ESPN and ABC viewers in New York Citys suburbs that those channels could go dark as soon as Oct. 1 if no deal is reached.
In response, the cable distributor, Altice USA, which has millions of customers on Long Island and in New Jersey and Connecticut, released a blistering statement accusing Disney of making outrageous pricing demands.
Stop the threats, the statement said.
Focus on negotiating an agreement that is fair.
Disney then fired back.
In a statement of its own, Disney took issue with Altices characterization of its pricing requests  particularly regarding ABC  and painted the cable distributor as greedy.
Photo

At issue is how much Altice pays for the right to distribute Disney-owned channels, which include ABC, ESPN, ESPN2, Freeform, Disney Channel and Disney XD.
The Walt Disney Company and Altice, which is owned by a European conglomerate, have been negotiating for months with little progress.
Disney is seeking price increases that amount to hundreds of millions of dollars, analysts say.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Spats of this sort are not unusual.
In 2010, Disney and Cablevision  since acquired by Altice  sparred in a similar manner; a new contract materialized only after Disney temporarily pulled ABC from Cablevision customers in the New York area.
During that dispute, Disney told viewers in commercials to email Cablevision and say, Lose my shows, lose my business!
Vanessa Chan, a spokeswoman for Facebook, said the board had determined that withdrawing the reclassification was in the best interests of Facebook and its shareholders.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The decision to drop the stock reclassification bucks a trend for technology chief executives who have structured their stock to gain outsize control over their company, often at the cost of common shareholder input.
Larry Page and Sergey Brin, who founded Google, and Evan Spiegel and Bobby Murphy of Snap are among those who hold a disproportionate share of voting power over their companies.
The impetus for the stock reclassification came after Mr. Zuckerberg and Dr. Priscilla Chan, his wife, celebrated the birth of their first daughter, Maxima.
The couple used the occasion to found the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, a limited liability company that acts as the main vehicle for the couple to give away their wealth over the coming years.
The idea was that it would allow me to keep voting control of Facebook so we can continue to build for the long term, but also allow Priscilla and me to fund the work were doing through the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, Mr. Zuckerberg said in a statement posted on his personal Facebook page on Friday.
At the time, I felt that this reclassification was the best way to do both of these things, he said.
In fact, I thought it was the only way.
But I also knew it was going to be complicated and it wasnt a perfect solution.
Mr. Zuckerberg and a spokeswoman for the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative said the stock reclassification was no longer necessary.
The chief executive noted that because of Facebooks strong stock performance, I can fully fund our philanthropy and retain voting control of Facebook for 20 years or more.
He said he planned to sell 35 million to 75 million shares over the next 18 months to finance work in fields like education and science.
This path offers a way to do all of this, and Im looking forward to making more progress together, Mr. Zuckerberg said.
Text posted with the video on YouTube said, Russia is waging war on the U.S.  Morgan Freeman explains why we need to pay attention before its too late.
Mr. Freeman looks at the camera and intones: We have been attacked.
We are at war.
In the video, Mr. Freeman accuses Mr. Putin, the Russian president, of secretly using cyberwarfare around the world like the true K.G.B.
spy he is.
The Russians have used propaganda and false information to undermine world democracies and to sow distrust of their news media, their political processes and even their neighbors, Mr. Freeman continues, often pausing for dramatic effect.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
We need our president to speak directly to us and tell us the truth, he says.
Then, taking a seat behind a desk, Mr. Freeman outlines remarks that he says President Trump ought to make.
Mr. Freeman is no stranger to presidential politics  at least of the fictional kind.
In the 2013 movie Olympus Has Fallen, he played a speaker of the House who becomes the acting president after the president and vice president are taken hostage during an attack on the White House.
But Mr. Freemans dabbling in real-world politics provoked sharply worded criticisms from Russian officials and news outlets.
The BBC reported that the Rossiya 24 news channel had assembled psychiatrists who attributed his comments to a Messianic complex resulting from playing God in several films.
Vadim Zavodchenkov, a weatherman for the channel, said Mr. Freeman was ill because of overwork and marijuana use.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Putins press secretary, Dmitri S. Peskov, said the accusations in the video were groundless and of an exclusively emotional character, the BBC reported.
Representatives for Mr. Freeman did not respond to emails on Friday evening.
Rob Reiner, the actor and producer, announced the creation of the Committee to Investigate Russia this week on Twitter.
He described it as trying to help Americans recognize and understand the gravity of Russias continuing attacks on our democracy.
Congressional committees are investigating, among other things, the Russian governments involvement in the election through an extensive social media campaign, targeted online ads and other methods.
Mr. Mueller, the special counsel, is also investigating connections between Russia and Mr. Trump and his associates, including whether they conspired to influence the election.
On Twitter on Friday, Mr. Trump called the investigations a hoax and said the Fake News Media wielded the greatest influence by supporting the Democratic nominee, Hillary Clinton.
Photo

Law firms already elbowing one another for multinational clients will soon have a new competitor: The Big Four accounting firm PwC, formerly known as PricewaterhouseCoopers, plans to open a law firm in Washington, D.C., next week.
The law firm, ILC Legal, will advise clients on international matters such as corporate restructuring.
Its lawyers will act as special legal consultants, rather than fully licensed United States lawyers, allowing them to provide counsel on foreign law but not United States law.
ILC Legal, nonetheless, aims to vie with big law firms as a one-stop shop offering multinational companies access to other PwC services, including tax consulting and its network of 3,200 lawyers spread across 90 countries.
The firms in that network operate separately but follow the same standards and practices under the PwC brand name.
We wont be a traditional law firm, where legal services are offered in isolation, but one part of a broader offering, said Richard J. Edmundson, a British solicitor based in London who is PwCs leader of international business reorganizations.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Edmundson will lead the new firm.
There will be five international lawyers and myself, from London, he said in a phone interview on Friday.
They are Spanish, Canadian, Polish and German attorneys who have been practicing at PwC network member firms outside of the U.S.
At sunup he moved to the backyard to photograph the volcanic explosion.
New Dawn, one of Mr. Turners phantasmagorical pictures, portrays lava in shades of yellow, orange and red, spraying in a fluid arc as if an unseen hand were directing it leftward over the volcano.
By underexposing his shots, he made the colors become more saturated.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It was like being in the center of a science fiction movie, he said on his website.
Donald Peter Turner was born in Albany on May 30, 1934.
His father, Donald, was the leader of a 23-piece touring band that was based for a while in Montreal.
His mother, the former Ruth Murray, was a homemaker.
Fascinated by photography from a young age, he was developing color pictures by age 14.
I love black and white photography, but somehow I got seduced by color, he told Photo District News in 2000.
I remember going to the art supply store as a kid and looking at watercolor paint boxes and thinking, These are beautiful.
After graduating from the Rochester Institute of Technology, where Mr. Uelsmann was among his classmates, Mr. Turner was drafted into the Army.
He served primarily at a combat photographic center in Astoria, Queens, where he ran the photo lab and experimented with a new type of color printing.
He was occasionally sent by the Army on assignments, like photographing rockets in Florida; he also found subjects to photograph in Manhattan on weekends.
After his discharge, he joined the Freelance Photographers Guild and went on a monthslong assignment for the Airstream trailer company, following a caravan of 43 vehicles traveling from South Africa to Egypt.
The sojourn whetted his appetite for more work in Africa and gave him a vivid portfolio that helped him secure assignments from Esquire, Look, Sports Illustrated and Holiday magazines, as well as from advertisers and Hollywood films  he was on set for Cleopatra (1963) and The Night of the Iguana (1964).
Photo

More than half of all American teenagers are getting vaccinated against human papillomavirus, and the rate is rising over time, according to a new report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Sixty percent of adolescents received one or more doses of the HPV vaccine in 2016, an increase of 4 percentage points from 2015, researchers found.
About a decade ago, the figure was less than 30 percent.
Were really encouraged to see this finding, said Shannon Stokley, a co-author of the report and associate director for science at the Immunization Services Division of the C.D.C.
The vaccine protects against strains of HPV that can cause cancers of the cervix, penis, anus and back of the throat.
Close to half of all Americans are infected at any given time, and nearly 32,000 get cancer from the virus each year.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

About 90 percent of those cases could be prevented with the vaccine, according to the C.D.C.
The agency used to recommend three doses, but new guidelines introduced last year amended that to two doses for adolescents younger than age 15.
He focused more on detailing, and explaining, shifting trends in American life: the generation gap of the 1960s, the rise of the womens movement in the 1970s, the neoconservatism of many young people in the 1980s, the emergence of a me first self-indulgence in the 1990s, and in recent years a widespread feeling that Americans have no voice in the decisions that affect their lives.
People feel they dont have that voice, that they are not consulted, theyre not listened to, their views dont really count, Mr. Yankelovich told Bill Moyers in a 2002 PBS interview.
But he offered a suggestion:

We find when we bring average Americans together that they listen to one another, that they can contribute and that they can build, develop a vision of what they want our society to be like.
And its really inspiring.
The author of a dozen books and many articles for newspapers, magazines and academic journals, Mr. Yankelovich lectured at Harvard, the New School in New York, the University of California at San Diego and other universities, and was on the boards of corporations and cultural organizations.
In the 1970s, he began The New York Times/Yankelovich poll and developed many survey techniques that The Times and CBS News later jointly used in their coverage of politics and public opinion polling.
In 1975, Mr. Yankelovich and Cyrus R. Vance, who was later President Carters secretary of state, founded Public Agenda, a nonprofit foundation that used opinion research and town-hall meetings to engage public officials, educators and citizens on questions of foreign and domestic policy.
Photo

While Mr. Yankelovich was not a doctrinaire liberal, he expressed dismay at what he saw as the decline of progressive traditions, and often called for greater social responsibility on the part of government and corporate America.
But he also sounded conservative themes in speeches and interviews, praising the work ethic, calling for welfare reforms and lamenting a loss of old-fashioned respect.
He was highly regarded by colleagues for his professional ethics, his imaginative and well-documented polling surveys and the quality of his statistical analyses.
But critics sometimes faulted him, saying he worked too fast on complex data, used too much social-scientific jargon in his writing and expressed a habitual optimism that bordered on Pollyanna-ism.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Some of his books were extended arguments, often exhortatory, for self-improvement or for conflict resolution; others were expressions of confidence in democracy or the virtue of ethics in business affairs.
The titles reflected his hopeful outlook: New Rules: Searching for Self-Fulfillment in a World Turned Upside Down (1981), Coming to Public Judgment: Making Democracy Work in a Complex World (1991), The Magic of Dialogue: Transforming Conflict Into Cooperation (1999), and Profit With Honor: The New Shape of Market Capitalism (2006).
In 2012, Mr. Yankelovich founded the Yankelovich Center for Social Science Research at the University of California at San Diego.
He later endowed the center with a multimillion-dollar bequest.
Daniel Yankelovich was born in Boston on Dec. 29, 1924, one of two children of Frederick Yankelovich and the former Sadie Mostow.
His mother died when he was a boy, and his father, a real estate salesman, became a house painter during the Great Depression.
He graduated from Boston Latin School and enrolled at Harvard, but left for Army service in World War II.
Returning to Harvard, he earned a bachelors degree in 1946 and a masters in 1950.
After two years in Paris studying at the Sorbonne, he returned without a doctorate and went to work for a market research firm in Connecticut.
He spent six years learning the ropes.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Opinion polling was still unsophisticated at the time: Interviewees were not necessarily representative, poll questions contained hidden biases, the data was muddled.
Political polls often got it right, but research on consumer preferences and public policy was trickier.
Mr. Yankelovich had some new ideas.
In 1958 he founded Daniel Yankelovich Inc. in New York, which made his reputation.
One of his first projects was a poll of 300 carefully selected consumers in four regions about imported goods, an idea prompted by the opening in 1959 of the St. Lawrence Seaway, which made it possible to ship directly to the Midwest at lower costs.
He found wide interest in imports and cited an unprecedented opportunity for foreign producers to build up greater consumer acceptance for their goods in this country.
In 1959, Mr. Yankelovich married Hasmieg Kaboolian.
The couple had one daughter, Nicole, and were divorced.
In 1991, he married a researcher, Mary Komarnicki.
She was killed in 1995 in a car accident in San Diego in which Mr. Yankelovich was injured.
He later married Barbara Lee; they were separated at his death.
In recent years he lived with his companion, Dr. Laura Nathanson, at White Sands La Jolla, a retirement community.
Besides his daughter, Nicole, and Dr. Nathanson, his immediate survivors include a granddaughter and a sister, Libby Schenkman.
Photo

The survey on imported goods was widely publicized, and the Yankelovich agency was soon flourishing.
By 1963, he was measuring the effectiveness of television advertising.
Volunteers watched commercials; were given money to shop in a mock supermarket, either buying advertised products or keeping the money; and were then questioned about their choices.
This provided data on sales and on the rationale behind purchases.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He was among the first, in the 1960s, to refer to the postwar generation as baby boomers, and he tracked their lives  from hula-hoops, coonskin caps and Barbie dolls to their rise to success in educated two-earner families and beyond.
In their mature years, he found a nameless yearning for deeper meaning, which he called submerged idealism, lying just below the surface of the pragmatism and calculation.
Mr. Yankelovich developed the concept of segmenting test markets by lifestyle rather than by demographics alone.
He also expanded his analyses to include social and cultural trends and began publishing annual surveys that tracked such changes.
His studies of American youths became the basis for a 1969 CBS television news special, Generations Apart.
Later surveys focused on college students attitudes and drug use.
By 1970, Yankelovich had become one of the largest market-research companies in the country, with a client list that included CBS, The New York Times, Fortune magazine, AT&T, General Electric, I.B.M., General Motors, Procter & Gamble, RCA, Volkswagen of America and the United States government.
The company became Yankelovich, Skelly & White in 1974, in recognition of the contributions by the executive vice presidents Florence Skelly and Arthur White.
Saatchi & Saatchi, the advertising agency, later bought the company, but Mr. Yankelovich remained chairman until 1986, when he formed a new firm, Daniel Yankelovich Group.
Conducting research for President Clinton in the 1990s, Mr. Yankelovich helped him begin a reinventing government project that was intended to make government leaner and more relevant to citizens.
The approach stole a march on Republicans, who had painted the Democrats as the party of big government.
With I. M. Destler he edited a collection of essays, Beyond the Beltway: Engaging the Public in U.S. Foreign Policy (1994).
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

During George W. Bushs presidency, Mr. Yankelovich tracked a long decline in public confidence in Washingtons ability to achieve goals in Iraq and Afghanistan, hunt terrorists, protect American borders and safeguard jobs in a troubled economy.
In the administrations waning days, he found that 85 percent of Americans believed the nation was on the wrong track.
In a speech at the Drucker Institute in Claremont, Calif., in late 2008, Mr. Yankelovich enumerated overwhelming national problems  the financial meltdown, the soaring debt, lost standing in the world, runaway health and education costs  and, typically, offered his vision of a way out of the mess.
He called it The New Pragmatism, and insisted that it would soon spread across America.
Its going to occur, he said, certitude rising in his New England accent, through entrepreneurship and innovative thinking at all levels of society: individual, commercial, public, nonprofit, private, institutional, and all of these in interlocking, interacting ways.
The decision was a rebuke to executives in the American solar industry who had argued against the legitimacy of the case.
The Solar Energy Industries Association has argued that the petition filed with the commission by the companies was deeply flawed and that bad management, not trade injustices, had brought on their problems.
The associations members are concerned that higher prices for imported solar equipment could slow the spread of solar energy in the country.
The decision is disappointing for nearly 9,000 U.S. solar companies and the 260,000 Americans they employ, said Abigail Ross Hopper, the solar energy associations chief executive.
She said the group would seek to prevent damaging trade relief.
The White House did not take a side after the vote but expressed support for solar equipment makers.
The president will examine the facts and make a determination that reflects the best interests of the United States, said Natalie Strom, a White House spokeswoman.
The U.S. solar manufacturing sector contributes to our energy security and economic prosperity.
The petition attracted an unusual level of attention and submissions of letters and data.
It resulted in a staff report of more than 500 pages, said Rhonda K. Schmidtlein, the commissions chairwoman.
The next phase is likely to be no different, trade and energy lawyers said, as various groups look to influence the commissions recommended remedy, which will go to Mr. Trumps desk.
There will be a public hearing on Oct. 3.
Several analysts predicted that tariffs would revive the manufacturing of solar modules, or panels, in the United States, encouraging producers to open or expand American factories, as some large Chinese panel makers are already looking to do.
But others said problems in the market were the result of low prices stemming from a global glut rather than a lack of capacity.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

At least one American company stands to benefit from tariffs on imports: First Solar, which manufactures overseas and uses a different technology that is not covered by the trade action.
Although companies like Sunrun, which focuses on installing panels on residential rooftops, said they could withstand higher prices, developers of large-scale projects said they were already seeing a slowdown as customers pulled back from committing to deals that could become uneconomical if costs rose.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Scott Canada, a senior vice president at McCarthy Building Companies, said that uncertainty surrounding the case had brought a flurry of business this year to a screeching halt and that the imposition of high tariffs could stall the industry for 18 months or more.
At the same time, the industry is focused on lowering its costs, especially given that an important federal tax credit is set to begin phasing down in 2020.
The dispute stemmed from a trade war between the United States and China that started in 2011.
In that case, SolarWorld Americas, a subsidiary of a now-bankrupt German panel maker, filed a trade complaint along with six other United States solar manufacturers.
They accused Chinese companies of using unfair government subsidies to help sell their merchandise for less than the cost of manufacturing and shipping it.
SolarWorld won the case, as well as a second that included Taiwan, where Chinese manufacturers had turned to avoid anticipated tariffs.
But the result sparked a global race to the bottom on price, Suniva and SolarWorld Americas argued, as manufacturers continued to evade tariffs by opening factories in other low-cost countries.
To end what the petition referred to as a game of Whac-a-Mole, the two companies sought blanket global protections to prevent manufacturers from circumventing tariffs aimed at specific countries, which the commission moved ahead on Friday.
The case relied on a section of United States trade law that has not been used since President George W. Bush levied tariffs on foreign steel in 2002.
In the intervening years, Barack Obamas administration chose to rely more heavily on the World Trade Organization to settle trade disputes.
President Trump and his advisers have argued that the World Trade Organization has been ineffective and slow at resolving trade violations.
They have urged more unilateral action by the United States.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Analysts see a good chance of the presidents taking action to protect the solar industry, given his longtime support for tariffs as a way to protect industries from cheap foreign products, especially from China.
As a result, broad segments of the solar industry say they are worried that the case will determine how and whether the American solar industry continues to grow.
The sharp drop in the cost of panels has made it difficult for domestic manufacturers to compete, but it has also fueled a boom in solar development throughout the country, providing a lift to an industry that says it employs over a quarter-million workers.
Indeed, the case has already reshaped the market.
Prices for solar panels have increased as buyers have rushed to get ahead of potential tariffs.
Solar-farm developers have became skittish about long-term commitments to supply power at prices that could become uneconomical if tariffs raise their costs.
Yet the tariffs could end up having relatively little effect on Chinese products, said Chad Bown, a trade expert at the Peterson Institute for International Economics.
Earlier trade cases have already stemmed the flow of many solar products from China, he said.
As a result, the broad tariffs that this measure could impose would fall more heavily on imports from South Korea, Mexico, Japan, Europe, Singapore and Malaysia, Mr. Bowns research shows.
Over the years Ive seen so many homages to Gianni Versace and direct reference to Gianni Versace, she said.
But I didnt have the courage to do it myself.
I was always afraid to touch the work of Gianni.
I thought I would be criticized: She isnt Gianni.
I thought I was going to fail.
I mean, I did fail for a while!
But then I realized: I was there for all of it.
And the younger girls  Kendall, Gigi  kept asking what it was all about.
Because you know, he died before there was social media.
Photo

So she went into the archives: a 10,760-square-foot storage facility in Novara, Italy, a town west of Milan, which houses 13,000 pieces by Mr. Versace.
And she came out with a collection that would be a celebration of 12 classic prints her brother created between 1991 and 1997, including the Warhol (a primary-colored riot of Marilyn and James Dean portraits), the animalire (leopard) and the baroque (ornate gold squiggles).
And while she remade a few pieces in their entirety, most she decided to reclaim via her own specifications: more day wear, sharper shoulders, fewer slits.
What would her brother say about the result?
Ms. Versace laughed.
Bitch!
Then she added, No, hed love it.
The difference between my brother and me is I also love women and think clothes are a good weapon to show here I am, look at me,  she said, But for me, its not look at me, I am so gorgeous, but look at me, I have something to say.
When I first started, I was doing 12 or more pieces of evening wear a collection.
Now its like two.
Photo

The result, on the Friday show schedule, was Versace past through the eyes of Versace present, with a riot of in-your-face prints given the platform to speak very loudly indeed, unrestrained by overcomplicated cut or concept.
Every garment will come complete with a label that notes the collection and the year, so consumers will know the moment of origin.
And then, to top it all off, Ms. Versace invited some of her brothers favorite models, the ones who had been most associated with his glamazon ideal  Cindy Crawford, Claudia Schiffer, Helena Christensen, Naomi Campbell and Carla Bruni (or Carla Bruni-Sarkozy, as she is now)  to create a finale tableau for the show that mimicked a 1994 ad campaign shot by Richard Avedon of many of the same models in gowns of gold chain mail.
Video

In the original they were draped over or dominating the prone figures of naked men but Ms. Versace thought she would skip that part of the re-creation.
Its 2017, after all.
Besides, as an affirmation of the continued relevance of Mr. Versace to the fashion world, the grouping would be pretty convincing.
How many brands could get the former first lady of France to return to their runways, after all?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

She said yes immediately, Ms. Versace said.
For me, this is a celebration of my brother, an opportunity to do something lively and fun, that creates joy.
We need it these days.
Indeed, the effect may be almost distracting enough to overwhelm the rumors  except for the fact that invited to sit in the front row were a host of other designers: Pierpaolo Piccioli of Valentino and Alessandro Michele of Gucci; Anthony Vaccarello of YSL, one of the designers who worked with Ms. Versace in the past on her second line, Versus; and Mr. Jones.
Wait  what?
Just imagine the freakout.
Presumably they did, because he decided not to come.
Photo

Still, it was as if Ms. Versace, who has never flatly denied the talking-to-other-designers rumors was teasing the Kremlinologists of fashion, dropping bread crumbs to see who would follow.
(She usually plays coy and falls back on phrases like at this moment and nothing is changing for the time being  the kind of things brands say when change may be coming but the legal issues have not been resolved, so who knows, it could all fall through at the last minute, which it occasionally does.)
As if she had decided to make the gossip into a meta game.
Maybe Ill pick among all of them, she said archly, referring to her peers.
This is not my last show, Im not leaving the company, she had announced back in Via Ges  which does not mean, of course, that she is not redefining her role.
But then she added, in reference to her work with Versus: I have always opened the doors of the house for others to come in.
Its very interesting to bring people in to show Versace through their eyes.
We learn from each other.
And companies need to change.
Gianni always took risks, and he taught me that.
Having done her take on her brothers work, having said that the experience of making the Tribute collection had liberated her to move on, that the result gave her closure, or as much closure as she can have  Ill never get over what happened, it was too brutal, but this helped me get through it some more  its easy to see her considering the possibilities of someone elses (Mr.
Joness?)
take on the brand.
To replace me completely?
she said.
Where would they get a platinum blonde like me?
Im irreplaceable.
But to work with her, or nearby?
Ive never been afraid to confront myself.
Photo

Solomon Pali, 55, is the outrigger canoe instructor at the Fairmont Kea Lani Hotel on the island of Maui, Hawaii.
How long have you been paddling?
Since I was a child  a keiki, in the Hawaiian language  of about 7.
Basically as soon as my father thought I could hold a paddle.
Is it hard to learn?
The key is to keep the paddle facing forward with the flat side facing back toward the rear.
This pushes the water under the canoe, which raises it to help you glide faster.
Then theres getting the feel of the ocean  the ebb and flow, currents and waves  which you can learn simply by floating flat on your back on the waters surface.
It still amazes me how many guests we have whove never been in the ocean.
Photo

How far back does your family heritage go in Hawaii?
Back to before the kingdom of Hawaii and time of King Kamehameha, who united the Hawaiian Islands in the early 1800s.
Our lineage here goes back to the 1500s and 1600s.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

What are the different kinds and uses of Hawaiian canoes?
All our canoes were built for livelihood and transportation.
The single-hulled canoe, which we call waa kaukahi, is 45 feet long and weighs about 400 pounds, and can be manned by six people.
Worth noting: Uber will appeal the decision, and can keep operating in London throughout the process.
From a statement by an Uber spokesman:

Uber operates in more than 600 cities around the world, including more than 40 towns and cities here in the UK.
This ban would show the world that, far from being open, London is closed to innovative companies who bring choice to consumers.
Joe Murphy, the political editor of Londons Evening Standard newspaper, had this to say on Twitter:

Related Reading

The Wall Street Journals Greg Bensinger says that Benchmark, one of Ubers earliest backers, wont participate in a plan to let SoftBank buy out existing investors.
Facebook Bows to Pressure From Washington

Lawmakers had complained that Facebook had turned over evidence of Russian-linked political advertisements to special counsel Robert S. Mueller, but not to Congress.
The technology giant is now bowing to the pressure, agreeing to turn over more than 3,000 of those ads to congressional investigators.
The New York Times's Scott Shane and Mike Isaac reported on Facebooks reasoning:

I care deeply about the democratic process and protecting its integrity, Facebooks chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, said during an appearance on Facebook Live, the companys video service.
He added that he did not want anyone to use our tools to undermine democracy.
Thats not what we stand for, he said.
In a Facebook post, Mr. Zuckerberg also outlined the companys newest initiatives:

 The service will now show which Facebook page paid for the ad, and the advertisers page will show all the ads the entity is running.
(Still, that doesnt necessarily identify who is running the page.)
We will strengthen our ad review process for political ads, Mr. Zuckerberg promised.
Facebook will hire 250 more employees for its security team.
The company will expand coordination with global election commissions.
It also promised to work closely with other technology companies to share threat information.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Zuckerberg also said Facebook was monitoring activity related to the German elections on Sunday:

Were also examining the activity of accounts weve removed and have not yet found a similar type of effort in Germany.
This is incredibly important and we have been focused on this for a while.
The Response

Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, to The Times:

This is a good first step, he said.
Im disappointed its taken 10 months of raising this issue before theyve become much more transparent.
He said he believed there were additional troll farms in both Russia and Eastern Europe, and its really important that Facebook work with us to investigate other sources of advertising and fake accounts.
Representative Adam Schiff of California, the senior Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, to Bloombergs Sarah Frier:

It will be necessary to hear directly from Facebook, Google and Twitter, as well as others in the tech sector, including in open hearings that will inform the American public, Schiff said in a statement.
Moving forward, the committees investigation will require greater and ongoing cooperation by Facebook and other social media companies on this and other issues.
The Context

Facebook is trying to stave off stricter government regulation.
Tech executives have been worried that new rules could lay huge burdens on the worlds biggest advertising business.
Facebook says it is not legally allowed to share everything it knows about advertisers, but some in the industry worry that could change.
The Timess media columnist, Jim Rutenberg, discussed this on a Recode podcast:

Television stations have to keep records that literally anyone in the public can see, in windows close to elections, who bought ads, Mr. Rutenberg said.
Maybe who bought it is Citizens for Blue Skies, and you have to figure out who they are, but theres a record of this.
And theres talk now about making social media properly accountable for this kind of advertising.
At the same time, Facebook and Alphabet are finding themselves under pressure from older tech companies and other sometime allies.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the DealBook Newsletter Every weekday, twice a day, get the news driving the markets and the latest on mergers and acquisitions.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
From The Informations Cory Weinberg:

In the debate-du-jour in the U.S. Senate, Oracle, Disney, Hewlett Packard Enterprise and 21st Century Fox recently voiced support for an anti-sex trafficking bill that would change the bedrock internet platform law, the Communications Decency Acts Section 230, to put more legal liability on web companies like Facebook and Alphabet.
Co-sponsored by Republican senator Rob Portman of Ohio, it is aimed mainly at Backpage.com, a classifieds site that ran ads connected with sex trafficking.
But it is written broadly enough that most big consumer internet companies have voiced concerns.
Related Reading

 Mr. Zuckerberg denied to Bloomberg Businessweek that his well-document tour around the United States was political:

Wouldnt it be better, he asks with a sly smile, if it was actually an accepted thing for people to want to go understand how other people were living?
He also complained about perceptions among the media that he is being inauthentic:

As he says this, his publicist stands up and indicates the interview is over, but Zuckerberg isnt quite done.
He smiles and then says, I need to give you a hard time.
He proceeds to complain about a Bloomberg Businessweek story in January that noted he employs a team of about a dozen content moderators  as well as communications managers, professional photographers, video producers, Morgan Freeman  who are all responsible for maintaining his personal Facebook page.
Youre taking away from all the time that I spent on this, he says.
The Timess Kevin Roose suggests that Facebook should learn from Wall Street and create a risk department.
From The Financial Timess lunch with Margarethe Vestager, Europes antitrust commissioner:

To some degree some of these companies are very old-school advertising companies in a completely new dress.
Some of the things that they do, they are amazing.
These are innovations that have changed our societies.
But that doesnt change the fact that they still have a responsibility.
If youre a dominant company, you have a special responsibility.
Yoshua Bengio, a professor at the University of Montreal and a pioneer in artificial intelligence, wants more government regulation of the big tech companies, according to Axioss Steve LeVine:

I asked Bengio if the companies should be broken up.
He harrumphed and responded that antitrust laws should be enforced.
Governments have become so meek in front of companies, he said.
Mr. Zuckerberg may deny that hes running for political office.
But The Washington Posts Aaron Blake thinks that another corporate mogul is itching to run for something:

Schultz spoke with The Washington Post at a job fair for young people on Wednesday, and while he insisted he wasnt talking politics, it wasnt difficult imagine him delivering the same words in a stump speech in Des Moines.
Brexit Is Poised to Take Shape

On the Political Front

After months of very public infighting among her cabinet members, Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain appears ready to commit to a negotiating strategy for her countrys exit from the European Union.
At a speech in Florence today, Ms. May is expected to announce plans for a two-year transition period after leaving the political bloc.
From Bloombergs Tim Ross, Ian Wishart and Simon Kennedy:

The goal is to maintain trade ties to the U.K.s biggest market and give businesses time to adjust to the new regime.
A holdover period would protect companies from being hit with unwieldy tariffs and regulations overnight, if no long-term trade deal has been struck by Brexit day in March 2019.
The Guardians Jon Henley adds that Ms. May will concede that Britain will pay some kind of divorce bill to the European Union:

It is thought May will offer to pay enough into the EU to ensure no member state need make extra contributions during the current budget round, which ends in 2020  a year after the UK leaves.
This would amount to about 20bn (18bn), although she may not mention a figure.
The assessment of The Financial Timess Sebastian Payne: The new approach marks the end of no deal is better than a bad deal.
On the Business Front

Britain is hoping to keep the financial services sector from fleeing to continental Europe with a more industry-friendly approach to regulation.
From The Financial Timess Sarah Gordon, Laura Noonan, Patrick Jenkins and George Parker:

[David Davis, Britains lead Brexit negotiator] believes that if Britain maintained the same regulatory framework for financial services as the EU in the long term  without having any influence over its composition  this would erode any competitive advantage the UK-based industry would gain from being outside the bloc.
After Bettencourt, LOral May Be in Play

For years, LOrals independence was all but guaranteed by the 33-percent stake held by the family of Liliane Bettencourt, the daughter of the founder of the cosmetics giant.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Her death on Wednesday, at age 94, has raised questions about how much longer that independence will endure.
The most obvious suitor: Nestl, which owns a 23-percent stake.
The Swiss conglomerate has long said that it views the holding as long-term and strategic.
(Third Points Daniel S. Loeb, who is urging changes at Nestl, disagrees: He wants the company to sell those shares.)
Nestls website says that the company will not make any moves on LOral for at least six months, as dictated by an agreement with her family.
That restriction will end in March.
A spokeswoman for Nestl told DealBook that the company declined to comment beyond this statement:

It is with great sadness that we received the news of the passing away of Mrs. Liliane Bettencourt.
We express our most sincere condolences and deepest sympathy to Mrs. Bettencourts family and to all at LOral at this difficult moment.
What Investors Think

Shares of LOral were up 3.5 percent this morning on the Euronext Paris stock exchange, at 182.80 euros, or nearly $218, their highest level since July.
Related Reading

Mrs. Bettencourt was long regarded as the richest woman in the world.
(Bloomberg estimates her net worth at $42.5 billion.)
But her later years were marked by controversy.
From the obituary by Robert D. McFadden in The Times:

LAffaire Bettencourt had captivated France since 2007, when a daughters lawsuit charged that Mrs. Bettencourt, ranked as the richest woman in the world, had been bamboozled by a society photographer 25 years her junior for cash, annuities, fine art and, it seemed, an island in the Seychelles.
This became a government scandal, too, when a former family accountant suggested that Mrs. Bettencourt had made contributions to Nicolas Sarkozy shortly before his election as president of France.
Taking Aim at Harvard Favoritism

This op-ed in The Washington Post by Sarah Ruden, a doctoral graduate from Harvard, has had the business world talking.
Ms. Ruden recounts how a student in a Latin class she had taught was outraged at having received an A-minus.
From her piece:

This professor didnt ask to see any evidence.
He accepted the students plea that he had worked really hard.
Then, in front of the student, he pressed me to explain the reason for my poor teaching, apparently the only thing that could reveal why the student wasnt satisfied with his grade.
Ms. Ruden adds:
Some, like Ms. McKerrow, are taking free lessons or video instructions online.
(About a million of Codecademys 45 million users globally are 55 or older.)
Others subscribe to web-based courses or take classes at community colleges, universities or boot camps.
To say there are many might be a stretch, said Jake Schwartz, a founder and chief executive of General Assembly, which offers technology and design training online and in 20 locations worldwide to corporations and individuals.
But they have been a welcome addition to class dynamics.
Many older coders want to develop new skills to keep their jobs or to start second careers.
Some are looking for volunteer opportunities or hobbies in their retirement.
Nearly all who have gone through the rigors of trying to understand correct syntax, algorithms and other technical foundations also gain a sense of confidence and accomplishment, while maintaining and improving their mental acuity.
Liz Beigle-Bryant, 60, of Seattle, credits the online classes she took in HTML and CSS code, the building blocks of the web, for helping her land a dream job recently as a document control coordinator at the public transit agency Sound Transit.
She expects to use these tools often in her new position.
One of the big obstacles in a job interview when youre older is that people think youre inflexible and you cant learn new things, said Ms. Beigle-Bryant, who was laid off from her job as an administrative assistant at Microsoft in 2011.
The code lessons she took a few years ago, also through Codecademy, gave me an edge, she said.
I developed a confidence that I didnt have before.
The operators of many of the nations nearly 100 coding boot camps say the vast majority of students enrolled in immersive training programs, which usually last 12 to 15 weeks and cost about $12,000 to $15,000, find employment upon completion.
(The most popular program?
According to Course Report, a website that monitors this industry, its a JavaScript-focused full stack, which teaches all stages of software development.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Older people have been part of these success stories, too, yet they are often hesitant even to get started.
I think so many people are discouraged because they think theyre too old, said Letta M. Raven, a tech support specialist for a payroll software company and a frequent speaker at womens tech conferences.
She has observed this reluctance among some conferencegoers and even had it herself.
I was considered old in this industry, said Ms. Raven, who is 42 and held many jobs, including pastry chef and artist, before settling into her current career.
She was long interested in software development, but it wasnt until two years ago that she enrolled at PDX Code Guild, a boot camp, and took courses in programming languages like Python, Ruby and JavaScript.
Ms. Beigle-Bryant also remembers being pointed away from anything technical and more toward the fine arts when she was younger.
Programming was something Ive wanted to do since high school, she said, but I was always discouraged from taking computer classes.
She did manage to take one, in Basic programming, in 1973.
Successful coders dont have to have a math background to succeed, said Zach Sims, a founder and the chief executive of Codecademy, which offers both free and premium coding programs, and this isnt something that requires a master of science.
Tenacity and persistence, he continued, are two important traits.
The ability  or at least desire  to solve problems is another.
Can you break a problem down and structure the solution in a logical manner?
said Avi Flombaum, a founder and the dean of the boot camp Flatiron School in New York.
He finds a correlation between programming and creative writing, which he studied in college: Writing also follows rules.
There is structure with writing, and grammar is technical.
Mr. Flombaum described programming as pretty transparent.
You can either do it or you cant, he said.
And once a person can code, I dont think age is a setback.
But he added: Learning anything from scratch can be difficult whether youre 23 or 50.
Both age groups battle insecurities.
Steve Deddens, 71, a retired commercial pilot from Austin, Tex., who flew fighter jets during the Vietnam War, admitted to being a little anxious about embarking on a second career in programming.
He worried about keeping up with his younger classmates at General Assembly, where he took an immersive program two years ago.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

People my age still have an AOL account, he said.
But Mr. Deddens, who is now a software engineer at a company that provides information technology services to Microsoft, found the transition relatively easy.
Ive always been good at solving problems, he said.
I like taking things apart.
Im an engineer by nature.
While the income he earns from his second career is certainly nice, he said, the other side of it is the joy of doing something with your mind and keeping yourself young.
Ms. McKerrow agreed: I think learning computer skills is great for older people.
There is no heavy lifting or physical demands, and exercise of the brain is so necessary to avoid atrophy, Alzheimers or dementia.
One way to get started  or at least see if coding is a good fit  is to attend a meetup.
These are organized get-togethers where people sign up online and meet offline to discuss common interests.
Codecademy, for instance, holds regular meetups in 300 cities around the world.
I made a commitment to go every month, said Laurie Alaoui, 59, from Lincoln, Calif., which is near Sacramento.
There, she said, she became familiar with the industry lingo and observed coders of all levels.
At the third one, I understood maybe 5 percent of what was said, she said.
But I took notes, and words I had no idea what they meant, I came home and looked them up.
And then the next month I would go to another one.
Before long, it got to where I could sit through the talk and understand what they were talking about, said Ms. Alaoui, who became disabled from a car accident in her teens and was looking for something less taxing physically.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In addition to attending meetups, she took lessons in HTML, CSS and JavaScript at Khan Academy, which, she said, are basically geared toward kids  they spell everything out.
She then enrolled at one of General Assemblys immersive programs and is now developing Gets You Inc., a website that helps connect people with autism.
That was the reason I wanted to get into coding, she said.
I saw that you really can change the world.
Paul Gruhn, a senior systems engineer at Yale University and an adjunct professor at Quinnipiac University and Manchester Community College, said some older students in his code classes had struggled to keep up with their younger classmates.
Web development is not for everyone, he said, but it is useful to have a broad understanding of technology.
Having a specific goal can help, too.
One of Mr. Gruhns students, Robert Maynard, 71, of East Windsor, Conn., wanted to build a blog to help promote his campaign for first selectman of his town.
He decided to enter politics after retiring in 2009 as a systems analyst at an insurance company, where he specialized in mainframe computers.
Mr. Maynard completed three classes at Manchester Community College (in HTML, PHP and SQL) and was elected in 2015.
It was nice to be with young people  it was invigorating, he said.
Although his campaign blog never materialized, he has gone on to build other websites, admittedly with not too many bells and whistles, including one for the East Windsor Republican Town Committee and one for his son in Colorado.
In light of the continuing standoff, many businesses worry about a cliff edge scenario, in which Britain would crash out without a deal, so Mrs. May is under pressure to find a way out of the impasse.
Speaking in Florence on Friday, Mrs. May did not say precisely how much money Britain would continue to contribute to the European Union.
But she made a significant promise that the British  who are big net contributors to the bloc  would not leave a hole in the unions budget in 2019 and 2020.
I do not want our partners to fear that they will need to pay more or receive less over the remainder of the current budget plan as a result of our decision to leave, Mrs. May said.
That would probably mean payments of around 20 billion euros, or about $24 billion, after Britains departure.
It would also effectively maintain the status quo for the duration of a two-year transition period, meaning that Britain would allow the free movement of European workers and accept rulings from the European Court of Justice.
This alone is unlikely to be enough to satisfy the 27 other member nations, but Mrs. May hinted that she would be willing to go further and honor commitments we have made during the period of our membership.
In addition, Mrs. May proposed a security partnership with the European Union, stressing Britains importance as a defense power, and also offered new legal safeguards to guarantee the rights of European Union citizens in Britain after Brexit.
Over all, Mrs. May sought to stress the common interest London shares with continental European capitals in reaching an agreement and avoiding disruption to trade, wrapping her offer in dialogue that was more positive, and less antagonistic, than that of some previous interventions.
Photo

European Union negotiators have refused to talk about post-Brexit ties until they judge that there is sufficient progress on the issues they consider a priority: the status of European Union citizens in Britain after it leaves, the border between Ireland and Northern Ireland (which is a part of the United Kingdom) and Britains financial commitments to the bloc.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I think it is definitely a net plus in terms of moving it forward said Mats Persson, who was a special adviser to former Prime Minister David Cameron and is now head of international trade at the advisory firm EY.
Mrs. Mays language opened the possibility of a breakthrough over financial contributions, Mr. Persson said, though he expressed surprise at how little was new in Mrs. Mays remarks about her hopes for the shape of the final Brexit deal.
Mrs. May suggested that an arrangement like Norways, which is part of Europes single market, accepting its rules and the free movement of people, would not work for Britain.
But she added that Britain could do better than a free trade deal of the type that Canada has negotiated with the European Union.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Yet, there is little sign yet that the other 27 nations are prepared to grant Britain a bespoke agreement, and officials have warned London on numerous occasions that there would be no cherry picking of the parts of European Union membership it likes.
Mrs. May had briefed her cabinet about plans for the speech on Thursday, after a tense week in which divisions were paraded in public, with Boris Johnson, the foreign secretary and a hard-line proponent of a withdrawal, publishing a 4,000 word essay outlining his vision of the future.
The episode illustrated how the referendum last year on withdrawal, intended to end the Conservative Partys divisions over Europe, only sharpened them.
To make matters worse, senior ministers are jockeying to succeed Mrs. May, who made a huge tactical mistake by calling a general election in June, in which her party lost its parliamentary majority.
Mr. Johnson attended Mrs. Mays speech in Florence alongside the chancellor of the Exchequer, Philip Hammond, who has led calls for a softer departure from the bloc that could afford greater protections for the economy.
Afterward on Twitter, Mr. Johnson welcomed the speech and put his spin on its contents which he described as positive, optimistic and dynamic.
That suggested that Mrs. May may succeed for now in reassuring most Brexit hard-liners that, when the all is said and done, Britain would not be bound by the blocs economic, migration and legal rules.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In March, Mrs. May formally began the withdrawal process, invoking a treaty article that sets a two-year deadline for the completion of talks  unless all member countries agree to extend it.
Not everyone was pleased with Mrs. Mays speech.
In a Twitter post, Manfred Weber, leader of the center-right group of political parties in the European Parliament, dismissed it as bringing no more clarity.
In Britain, Nigel Farage, the former leader of the U.K.
Independence Party and a hard-line Brexit supporter, said that withdrawal had been kicked into the long grass.
Jeremy Corbyn, leader of the opposition Labour Party, described the speech as the product of the internal negotiation of the Tory Party rather than negotiations with the E.U.
Another opponent warned that this was just the first step on a long and costly road for Britain.
The money that Theresa May is reportedly about to offer as the biggest divorce settlement in history would simply be the down payment, said Vince Cable, leader of the centrist Liberal Democrats, who flatly oppose withdrawal.
Brexit will cost a lot, lot more than this.
But those two top contenders combine for lower than 50 percent odds in our expert survey  meaning that our panelists thought there was a better-than-even chance that the appointment will be one of many contenders with individually modest but collectively high chances of rising to the top of the presidents list.
Compared with PredictIt, an online marketplace based on news events, our experts saw slightly lower odds for either of them.
On Thursday afternoon, trading on PredictIt implied 30 percent odds for Ms. Yellen and 28 percent for Mr. Warsh.
Using our expert survey  and comments from some of the participants in it  heres a guide to President Trumps options as he makes perhaps the single most consequential economic decision of his first year in office.
Yellen reappointment: continuity and bipartisanship

Theres a tradition of reappointing Fed chairmen who were originally appointed by a member of the opposite party.
President Obama did so with Ben Bernanke; Bill Clinton with Alan Greenspan; and Ronald Reagan with Paul Volcker.
That tradition has helped keep the Fed, with its vast power over the economy and financial system, insulated a bit from politics, but President Trump has no obligation to follow it.
The case for renominating Ms. Yellen is straightforward.
She has presided over four years of steady economic expansion and rising financial markets.
She moved cautiously toward raising interest rates even though the economy seemed to be approaching full employment.
By contrast, some more conservative contenders for the job have indicated they want to raise rates more quickly, which could endanger the economy as President Trump approaches midterm elections in 2018 and a potential re-election battle in 2020.
After criticizing her during his campaign, President Trump has had some kind words for her, saying in July that he liked her and that shes done a good job.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Moreover, as President Trump dabbles in making deals with Democrats, reappointing Ms. Yellen could serve as an expression of good faith to Democratic senators.
As administration officials focus on tax legislation and other priorities on Capitol Hill, it might be helpful to them to nominate someone who might sail through confirmation, rather than demand a bruising, time-consuming battle.
Shes a known quantity, and there is less risk of disrupting the financial markets if the president renominates Dr. Yellen, said Brian Gardner, managing director of Washington Research at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, and one of the panelists.
Although President Trump is unorthodox in many ways, every president wants calm financial markets.
The case against Ms. Yellen is similarly straightforward: She is a liberal economist in a government dominated by conservatives.
She is a cerebral academic serving during the presidency of a bombastic businessman.
And she is a staunch defender of the work the Fed and other bank regulators have done to try to limit risk in the financial system  including in a high-profile speech last month  amid an administration focused on deregulation.
Kevin Warsh: well connected, but with baggage

Our experts consensus was that Mr. Warsh has slightly better odds than Ms. Yellen.
He was a Fed governor from 2006 to 2011, and was a member of Mr. Bernankes inner circle in shaping the Feds extraordinary (and often extraordinarily unpopular) actions to battle the global financial crisis.
He is well connected in conservative political circles and is now a distinguished visiting fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford.
Before joining the Fed, where he was the youngest governor in the institutions history, he worked in the George W. Bush White House and at Morgan Stanley.
He has a law degree, but no advanced degree in economics.
Mr. Warsh has been a skeptic of the Feds efforts to boost the economy through quantitative easing and has advocated raising interest rates more quickly.
He also has a regulatory philosophy more in line with the administrations.
The Race to Be the Next Fed Chairman Appears to Be Wide Open Experts surveyed by The Times believe that Kevin Warsh and Janet Yellen stand the best shot at being appointed to lead the central bank, but combine for less than a 50 percent chance.
EXPERT CONSENSUS PREDICTIT Kevin Warsh Janet Yellen Gary Cohn John Taylor Glenn Hubbard Larry Lindsey Jay Powell John Allison Tom Hoenig Richard Davis Bill Dudley Rest of Field 23% 22% 12% 8% 7% 6% 5% 2% 2% 1% 1% 10% 28% 30% 13% 2% 2% 1% 1% 1% 22% Expert Consensus PredictIt Kevin Warsh Janet Yellen Gary Cohn John Taylor Glenn Hubbard Larry Lindsey Jay Powell John Allison Tom Hoenig Richard Davis Bill Dudley Rest of Field 23% 22% 12% 8% 7% 6% 5% 2% 2% 1% 1% 10% 28% 30% 13% 2% 2% 1% 1% 1% 22%

Another factor that might weigh in Mr. Warshs favor with the president?
Mr. Warshs father-in-law is Ronald Lauder, of the Este Lauder cosmetics fortune, a major Republican donor with longstanding ties to Mr. Trump.
If Mr. Warsh is nominated, expect significant blowback during the confirmation process from Democrats, who are likely to accuse the 47-year-old Mr. Warsh of being underqualified, of being responsible for the 2008 bank bailouts and inclined to regulate banks too lightly now, and of being too overtly political for the traditionally nonpartisan Fed chairmanship.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Whatever happened to Gary Cohn?
Not long ago, Gary Cohn, the head of the White House National Economic Council, looked like the leading candidate to be the next Fed chairman.
In late July, his odds were 46 percent on PredictIt.
But now our panel puts those odds at 12 percent, and PredictIts odds were about the same.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
A former No.
2 at Goldman Sachs, Mr. Cohn has been reported to have swung out of favor with Mr. Trump after criticizing his response to racially motivated violence in Charlottesville, Va.
But there were some reasons to be skeptical of Mr. Cohns appointment to the Fed chairmanship even before that.
Mr. Cohn has a hard-charging style that would be an unusual fit for an agency that is run more like an academic department.
The last businessman to become Fed chairman, G. William Miller, was appointed by President Jimmy Carter and lasted only 18 months in the job.
And given his rsum, Mr. Cohns nomination would surely set off a heated confirmation battle.
Democrats would be eager to criticize the administration for naming a recent top executive at Goldman Sachs to be the nations most powerful financial regulator.
Some populist Republicans might join them.
Still, given the way people move in and out of Mr. Trumps favor, and his preference for appointees with business experience, a Cohn appointment cant be ruled out.
The other contenders

The expert consensus is that there is about a one-in-three chance collectively for the other possible nominees, even as each of them individually is viewed as having single-digit odds.
Foremost among them are several of the names we would probably be hearing about if a conventional Republican president were in the White House.
John B. Taylor is a respected economist at Stanford who worked in the George W. Bush administration and has been an influential voice among congressional Republicans who want to see the Fed bound by stricter rules governing its actions.
Glenn Hubbard was a top economic adviser to Mr. Bush who is dean of Columbia Business School.
Larry Lindsey was another top adviser to Mr. Bush and a former Fed governor with an economics doctorate from Harvard.
Our panels consensus odds for the three were 8, 7 and 6 percent, respectively.
Their doctorates and affiliations with top universities may actually be downsides in an administration that has shown disdain for academic expertise.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Another intriguing possibility is Jerome Powell, known as Jay, a current Fed governor who served in the George H.W.
Bush Treasury Department and was a partner at the Carlyle Group, the private equity firm.
If Mr. Trump wanted a nominee who would probably maintain continuity with current Fed policy but was more conservative and business-minded than Ms. Yellen, Mr. Powell would be a below-the-radar option.
The panel rates his odds of ending up in the job at 5 percent.
A range of other names has emerged in various reports, including the F.D.I.C.
vice chairman Thomas Hoenig and John Allison, the former chief executive of BB&T bank, but our panel assigns them only long-shot odds.
The surprise factor

Mr. Trump loves a surprise.
In his search for a secretary of state, for example, he considered numerous prominent options before going with Exxons chief executive, Rex Tillerson, a bit of an out-of-left-field choice.
As he focuses on the choice for Fed chief, a similar pattern could reappear, and a less conventional choice could emerge.
Thats why the consensus of our panel is that theres a 10 percent chance the nominee is not on this list at all.
Then again, in another appointment that has some similarities to the Fed chairmanship, the selection of a Supreme Court nominee, Mr. Trump went with a respected conservative jurist in Neil Gorsuch.
As Mr. Trump starts focusing on the Fed chief decision in the months ahead, that may be the biggest decision of them all: whether to look at conventional qualifications, or go with a surprise.
Either way, with Ms. Yellens term coming to a close and a crowded calendar of Senate business that could stand in the way of a confirmation vote, the clock is ticking.
ABOUT OUR PANEL: The odds listed here are based on a survey of 11 savvy observers of the Fed and economic policy making who were asked to offer a probability on each of the potential nominees listed.
Their probabilities were to add to 100 percent, including the odds on rest of field, or another nominee emerging.
Those odds were then averaged to create a consensus probability of each selection.
The participants were: Shehriyar Antia of Macro Insight Group; Tony Fratto of Hamilton Place Strategies; Brian Gardner of Keefe, Bruyette & Woods; Krishna Guha of Evercore I.S.I.
; Roberto Perli of Cornerstone Macro; Douglas Rediker of International Capital Strategies; Michael Strain of the American Enterprise Institute; Phillip Swagel of the University of Maryland; Diane Swonk of DS Economics; Eric Winograd of AllianceBernstein; and Mark Zandi of Moodys Analytics.
If Doug thinks hes at war, the statement said, why does he contact us every two weeks asking for millions (40 percent for him) in exchange for peace?
Television viewers have long been familiar with Foxs public product, but for more than a decade, there have also been persistent glimpses of its private culture as numerous women have come forward accusing men like Mr. Ailes  or the host Eric Bolling, who was ousted this month after sending lewd text messages to female colleagues  of predatory sexual misconduct.
As Mr. Ailes did before he died in May, Mr. Bolling has denied the allegations.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The accusations by Mr. Wigdors clients  former news anchors, former news analysts, former accounting department employees  have only deepened the portrait of a toxic culture.
One of the people he represents, a regular guest political commentator, says the network retaliated against her after she lodged a rape claim against a Fox Business host.
Another, a Bangladeshi payroll worker, says a colleague once referred to him as a terrorist.
In lawsuits that run to nearly 300 pages, there are charges that the network demoted a freelance reporter at Fox 5 News, its New York affiliate, after she became pregnant; that Foxs former comptroller repeatedly ridiculed black and Hispanic colleagues; and that some Fox journalists conspired with the White House to produce fake news.
The network has denied these charges and in each of the cases has promised to vigorously defend itself.
On Monday night, it filed a motion to dismiss the fake news suit, calling it without merit and legally insufficient.
Two days later, one of the defendants in the suit asked a court to professionally sanction Mr. Wigdor for having whipped up a media frenzy over what he claimed was a false narrative.
Using the media is one of his favorite tactics, and he has on occasion included details in his complaints  about his defendants sex lives, for example  that are sensational and embarrassing but not necessarily legally relevant.
At 48, Mr. Wigdor has found himself as the courtroom general leading an army of Fox complainants largely because of his reputation as one of New York Citys most aggressive employment lawyers.
During his career, he has filed gender discrimination suits against Deutsche Bank and Citigroup (both of which, like many of his lawsuits, were settled without a claim of liability), and an age and racial bias suit against The New York Times.
In June, he sued Uber, alleging that officials at the company illegally sought the medical records of a woman who claimed she was raped by an Uber driver in India.
(An Uber spokesman has apologized that the plaintiff had to relive the experience.)
And in 2013, after he sued SoulCycle, charging that the indoor cycling studio had cheated an instructor out of his wages, the company banned him from all of its locations.
So he sued over that, too, and lost.
But despite the fact that he has repeatedly taken on corporate giants, Fox may be his toughest target yet.
In February, the network fired Judith Slater, the former comptroller, who is accused of racial animus by many of his clients.
The network since maintained that Mr. Wigdors lawsuit naming Ms. Slater was needless and that his follow-up amended suits were copycat complaints.
In April, days before one of those amended suits was filed, Mr. Wigdor said that Foxs lawyers threatened to seek sanctions against him if his new plaintiffs went public with their claims.
(A lawyer for Ms. Slater said that Mr. Wigdors claims against her rely on false allegations and were nothing more than a money grab.)
The threats have not just come from Fox itself.
This spring, Mr. Wigdor held a televised news conference in which he announced additional plaintiffs in an expanding racial bias suit against Fox.
Minutes after the event was aired, the police said a man called his office threatening to blow it up.
When the man called back, Mr. Wigdor got on the phone with him.
Mr. Wigdor said the man called him a nigger lover, adding he was going to kill him and his family.
Mr. Wigdor called the police, who eventually identified the caller as Joseph Amico, a computer repairman from Las Vegas.
Within three weeks, two New York detectives had traveled to Las Vegas to arrest Mr. Amico, but a standoff ensued when he refused to leave his home.
After several hours, a local SWAT team broke into the house and found Mr. Amico in the attic.
Mr. Amicos lawyer, Todd Spodek, said his client would fight the charges.
In this political climate, Mr. Spodek said, people are so worked up about the issues that its very easy for words to be misunderstood and hysteria to take place.
Slim and sinewy, with a disarmingly focused gaze, Mr. Wigdor says he has always had a passion for competition.
He is a regular tennis player (and claims that while in law school he gave lessons to Alan Greenspan, a future chairman of the Federal Reserve).
He bikes each day from his home in Forest Hills, Queens, to his law firm on lower Fifth Avenue.
While working on a masters degree at Oxford University, where he met his wife Catherine, he played starting point guard on its 1995 national champion basketball team.
It has spawned start-ups like RapidMiner, a maker of so-called machine learning software  software capable of teaching itself to do things.
Founded in 2007 by alumni of the university, RapidMiner employs 30 people in a local office, where the conference rooms are named after closed coal mines.
There is a good start-up culture, Ralf Klinkenberg, one of the companys co-founders, said of Dortmund.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

State and local officials also sought to improve the quality of life, which they see as key to attracting employers.
After an enormous ThyssenKrupp steel-making complex closed in 2001, the local government cleared the property and created an artificial lake big enough to accommodate a small fleet of sailboats.
Today the lake is ringed by modern low-rise buildings containing offices, pricey apartments and cafes.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Morning Briefing What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
All of this comes at a price conservatives in America would find unacceptable.
The government safety net here is more comprehensive, with taxes to match, including a 19 percent national sales tax.
Germany has universal health insurance, relatively generous unemployment benefits, and free university tuition.
The government plays a role in the economy that many Americans would consider heavy handed.
Germany also has powerful labor unions, which have a long history of opposition to right-wing parties.
Some research has linked President Trumps rise to the decline of union membership in the United States.
In Dortmund, worker representatives have successfully pressured companies to finance retraining or early retirement for laid-off workers.
Sabine Birkenfeld, chairwoman of the workers council at a ThyssenKrupp steel galvanizing factory in Dortmund, has lived through serial mergers and layoffs over the years that reduced the work force by 90 percent to 1,300 people.
Still, she said, no one had to go to the unemployment office.
The struggle continues.
Ms. Birkenfeld arrived for an interview with The New York Times wearing a hard hat after touring the factory floor to urge workers to protest plans by ThyssenKrupp to merge its steel operations into a joint venture with Tata Steel.
ThyssenKrupp said the deal would lead to the loss of 2,000 jobs.
Ms. Birkenfeld said workers would push hard for the best possible terms.
If no one lands on the street, she said, then there wont be any fodder for the right-wing parties.
It wont be clear until the vote on Sunday whether Germany has succeeded in containing right-wing sentiment.
Some analysts say the rise of populist parties stems not from economic factors, but rather from a feeling by some voters that mainstream politicians are not listening to them.
In that case, Dortmunds revival would provide no insurance against a right-wing surge.
Its not economic conditions but whether they perceive their concerns are heard by the establishment, said Timo Lochocki, a fellow at the German Marshall Fund of the United States.
A wild card is whether AfDs anti-foreigner policies, including calls for armed guards at the borders, will resonate with some voters here.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Emad Abdelmalak, a 30-year-old Egyptian studying in Dortmund, said he did not think so.
Mr. Abdelmalak has sensed hostility in Germany once or twice since arriving three years ago, he said.
But, he added, in Dortmund Ive never had this feeling.
The White House and Senate leaders are now in an intensive final push to repeal the Affordable Care Act by September 30.
After that, under Senate rules, they will need 60 votes, which they acknowledge is an impossibility.
Senator Graham said in a statement on Thursday that the legislation was gaining momentum and support because it would send money and power back to the states, and closer to patients, to deliver quality health care.
The legislation would turn over more than $1 trillion that would have been spent on the law known as Obamacare over the next seven years  everything from the funds for the expansion of Medicaid to the subsidies to help people buy private insurance  to states as block grants with very few strings attached.
They would then use the money to set up their own health care programs.
Congress would have to reauthorize the money after 2026 or it would go away.
The decisions about individual mandates, mandated benefits, and all the other decisions the ACA moved to Washington are best made at the state level by governors who understand the unique needs of their states, said Gov.
Asa Hutchinson of Arkansas, a Republican.
Arkansas expanded Medicaid under Obamacare, and would lose roughly $6 billion under the bill, but Governor Hutchinson supports the legislation nonetheless.
Graham-Cassidy is putting federal spending on a budget, he said.
That is the fiscal discipline the federal government and states both need to ensure the sustainability of Medicaid and other state health care programs.
Like previous Republican proposals, the bill would also cancel the federal governments commitment to the open-ended funding of the traditional Medicaid program, capping an entitlement for the poor and disabled that now covers one in five Americans.
States could choose to take some of that Medicaid money in a block grant too.
Winners and Losers

One of the most striking things about the bill is how it redistributes federal money among states.
Some states that have invested a lot in expanding coverage under Obamacare (many of them Democratic) would lose big to others (mostly Republican) that have fiercely resisted going along with the law and are hostile to federal spending in general.
Photo

The biggest spoils would go to Texas, which refused to expand Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act and had the nations highest uninsured rate last year at 16.6 percent.
The health data firm Avalere estimated that Texas would receive an additional $35 billion by 2026 under the bills formula.
California, which has expanded coverage to an additional 3.7 million under the A.C.A.
would get $78 billion less through 2026 than under current law, and New York would see $45 billion less, Avalere found.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In Mississippi, which Avalere calculated would reap an extra $6 billion through 2026, some public health officials were skeptical that the state would even want the money.
Mississippi has one of the nations sickest populations and has historically resisted federal funding for social welfare programs.
After the Affordable Care Act became law, Gov.
Phil Bryant, a Republican, rejected not only the chance to expand Medicaid but also his own state insurance commissioners attempt to create a state-based insurance marketplace with federal funds offered under the law.
Year after year we have fought to get our policy makers to take money from the feds, said Roy Mitchell, executive director of the Mississippi Health Advocacy Program.
I could just see another scenario like that with this bill.
These states that would see more money are just rife with ideologues that do not want to see this specific population get any kind of opportunity for affordable coverage.
Thats my stark reality.
In an emailed statement on Wednesday, Governor Bryant said his priority if the Senate bill passed would be to implement a system of health care that best fit the specific needs of Mississippis most vulnerable citizens, and did not endanger coverage for those with pre-existing conditions.
In Iowa, state officials have already filed a formal application to opt out of the Obamacare insurance market next year.
The insurance commissioner, Doug Ommen, said he liked the idea of a health care block grant even though under the bills formula, Iowa stood to lose some federal funding.
The proposal he submitted to the Trump administration would use the federal money that helps cover lower-income peoples deductibles to instead provide more premium subsidies and help insurers cover their most expensive customers costs.
It could be an early example of something states might try to do under the Senate bill, if the money was sufficient.
I think we would make it work here, Mr. Ommen said of the bill.
We are a proponent of flexibility.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In Alabama, another winner under the Senate bill, Jim Carnes, policy director at Arise Citizens Policy Project, an advocacy group, described the bill as a bait and switch for the state.
The early gains from the redistribution will take a nose-dive 10 years out and we will lose billions, he said.
No state is a winner in the end.
Remaking Medicaid

The bill would make the most sweeping changes to Medicaid since the programs inception in 1965.
It goes farther than previous Senate proposals, and a bill passed by the House in May, by eliminating the expansion of Medicaid set up by the Affordable Care Act, which has extended the programs coverage to 11 million more lower-income people, and putting the money into block grants starting in 2020.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The states could use that money for a variety of health care expenses, including creating high-risk pools to cover particularly expensive patients, to create a health care exchange run by the state, or to subsidize the cost of premiums or out of pocket costs for people with private insurance.
Photo

In all, Medicaid now covers 74 million Americans, most of them poor but also middle class people with disabilities and in nursing homes.
The federal government shares the cost of Medicaid with states, and has traditionally paid between 50 and 75 percent of the costs, with poor states receiving more money.
The commitment was open-ended; the government covered its share no matter the cost, or how many people enrolled.
The federal government picked up the entire cost of the Medicaid expansion at first, with that share ultimately tapering to 90 percent.
Like previous Republican proposals, Graham-Cassidy would cap traditional Medicaid spending on a per-person basis, based on a complex formula.
That provision worries many hospital systems.
These funding reductions are unsustainable for many Ohio hospitals, said John Palmer, a spokesman for the Ohio Hospital Association, adding that nearly 20 percent of hospitals in the state already spend more than they take in.
Its hard to overstate the potential effects.
Medicaid now provides medical care to four out of 10 American children, and covers the costs of nearly half of all births in the United States, as well as care for two-thirds of people in nursing homes and also for 10 million children and adults with physical or mental disabilities.
It would unleash massive health care debates in every state capital, said Mr. Levitt, at Kaiser.
All these tough decisions would no longer be on Congress plate but on the plates of governors.
Consumer Protections

The proposal is much more aggressive than some of the other Republican plans in rolling back the Affordable Care Acts consumer protections, say health care lawyers and other experts who have studied the bill.
It would allow states to stop requiring insurers to cover essential health care needs like hospitalization, prescription drugs, maternity care and mental health treatment.
Senator Bill Cassidy of Louisiana, a co-author of the legislation, has insisted that it would continue to provide vital protections to people with chronic illnesses so they would be able to find health insurance.
But lawyers say the bill would allow states an almost unfettered ability to permit insurance companies to charge someone with, say, cancer or diabetes much higher rates  or to exclude certain expensive conditions like pregnancy or addiction from the plans they offer.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Though it is unclear how many would do so, states would be able to waive the existing rules much more easily because the bill would only require a state to explain how it intended to cover people with pre-existing conditions.
Its not at all required that their explanation or plan meets any kind of standard, said Richard J. Zall, a partner at the law firm Proskauer.
Moreover, unlike previous proposals, the bill would pave the way for insurers to adjust their prices every time someone renewed a policy, based on the individuals changing health status.
People could sign up for a plan and see the price skyrocket if they developed a potentially serious condition like cancer, said Karen Pollitz, a senior fellow at the Kaiser foundation.
Even the way people bought insurance would change in states that relied on the current federal insurance marketplace, which allows people to buy subsidized plans through HealthCare.gov.
It would be dismantled in 2020.
The federal exchanges go away, said Timothy S. Jost, an emeritus professor at Washington and Lee University law school who opposes to the bill.
Instead of setting up their own website so people can shop for a plan, the state could use the money to set up high-risk insurance pools for people with expensive chronic conditions or pay hospitals and doctors directly for care.
But even with the best of intentions, the time frame is very short for states to come up with an alternative plan, he said.
The biggest problem is how are states are going to do this in two years, Mr. Jost said.
JAMES GRAHAM I began writing it at the beginning of 2016, but even before Brexit and Trumps election, I was interested in the way our news discourse was changing online and through social media.
The more aggressive populist language of journalism there made me think about the aggressive populist tone that started with The Sun.
Photo

I was fascinated by these two characters: Rupert Murdoch, who feels very present in our cultural life, and Larry Lamb, expunged from history despite his influence in changing the voice of popular discourse.
But I also had a wider desire to understand the tabloid appeal, and its wider effect on our political life.
And then, its just a damn good story!
What you cant deny is what was in the air: The national mood, the temperature of the country, and particularly the language  the tone of conversation in the media, social media, at the pub.
The presentation of the young Murdoch is very evenhanded.
Did you discover aspects of his character that went against expectations?
BERTIE CARVEL I dont know what I had in mind before I came to the table.
It was important to me not to decide who this guy was before it began.
One of the things that emerged is that Murdoch was a visionary, a story perhaps suppressed by those who think he was an uncouth outsider who just wanted to wreck the shop.
GRAHAM The narrative that has been perpetuated is that we are somewhat sympathetic to Murdoch.
I dont think its that.
Its about understanding human motivation.
I dont think people wake up and think, How can we make the world worse?
What does it mean for this play to be staged in London now, after the phone hacking scandals and the 20th anniversary of Dianas death, often blamed on tabloid hunger for stories?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

CARVEL I think the play shows a bunch of themes and arguments that have huge resonance, and not just in Britain.
Murdoch talks about giving people more choice, more freedom, and that sounds good, specially in opposition to a patrician we-know-whats-good-for-you.
But when you track it through, you see where it may be problematic.
Which is where we are now.
Photo

GRAHAM I would love to think this could be played in 50 years time and have different resonances.
Its the universals of the human experiences that make it last; thats the stuff I had to go away and work harder on when I was writing.
To what extent do we live in Rupert Murdochs world now?
Do you think he knew where media culture was headed?
CARVEL The question is: Was it ever thus?
Did tabloids shift peoples political allegiances or did they follow them?
The idea that Rupert Murdoch can decide who your Prime Minister is  well, I think that even the people who wrote the famous 1992 headline, Its The Sun Wot Won It, didnt think that was true.
But you cant deny the impact of that journalism and those characters in terms of how we talk about ourselves and view ourselves today.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
During the rehearsal period we had the general election, which no one had expected, and then a result that no one had expected.
Afterward, we had to ask, has the influence of the tabloids diminished because they tried hard, but didnt succeed, in crushing Jeremy Corbyn?
I think that by isolating a moment in history when the power of the tabloids was so great, and their influence so huge, audiences may have that conversation about whether that power is still the same.
There are often parallels drawn between Murdoch and Trump, who are famously friendly.
James, did you think about that while writing?
GRAHAM I thought about Trump a lot during the latter stages of rehearsal.
And also about British figures like Nigel Farage and Arron Banks.
I am fascinated by populism and the contradiction, possibly even the hypocrisy, of the fact that its often men of great privilege and wealth who are the epitome of the establishment, who present themselves as anti-establishment and representative of working-class anger.
But I do think that what drove Rupert Murdoch was more than commercial interests.
Like Trump, even though he was an insider, he felt like an outsider, that people humiliated him, mocked him.
The anger that boiled within fueled the desire for revenge.
But the Murdoch in my play is also driven by the desire to provide a voice to others who feel outside the system, because he had an understanding of what that feels like.
Im not sure thats true for Trump.
Photo

Katherine M. Bonniwell, a former publisher of Life magazine who was widely considered a role model for female magazine managers, died on Aug. 31 at her home in Manhattan.
She was 70.
The cause was lung cancer, her husband, William Leibovitz, said.
Ms. Bonniwell was an early glass ceiling breaker who led a groundswell of very talented women into top positions at Time Inc., Lifes parent company, said Chris Meigher, who was president of the organization during her time there.
She was strong and stalwart and could stand toe to toe with anybody, Mr. Meigher said.
Life, best known for its photo essays, was published weekly until 1972 and then monthly from 1978 until 2000.
It now exists as a depository of 20 million photos and images on the Time website.
Ms. Bonniwell was publisher from 1988 to 1991, a period marked by high magazine readership but also by advertising downturns and shifts in consumer interest.
During her tenure, the magazine increased its circulation to 1.4 million from 1.2 million and won two National Magazine Awards.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Bonniwell, known for her innovative solutions to complicated problems, was the second woman to serve as publisher of Life; the first was her immediate predecessor, Lisa Valk.
She also served as worldwide director of circulation at Time Inc. and business manager for People magazine.
Dmitri S. Peskov, a spokesman for President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, denied on Friday that Russia had been involved in any way.
The Kremlin, he said, does not even know how to put advertisements on Facebook, adding, We have never done it, and the Russian side has never been involved in this.
For Facebook, the move to work with the congressional committees underscored how far the social network has strayed from being a mere technology company and how it has increasingly had to deal with the unintended consequences of the tools it provides to reach the more than two billion people who use the site regularly.
The company became more proactive in deflecting criticism this week, with its chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, describing on Wednesday the steps Facebook would take to strengthen its ad system so that it could not be misused to target racists.
On Thursday, in a move clearly intended to pre-empt government intervention, Mr. Zuckerberg outlined the list of actions Facebook planned to take in the coming weeks to make political advertising more transparent.
He said each ad will show which Facebook Page  a kind of account required for businesses to create an ad  had paid for the ad, although that would not necessarily identify the people behind the Facebook Page.
In addition, Facebook plans to invest more heavily in its security teams, expand its coordination with global election commissions, and work closely with other tech companies to share threat information as it arises.
In his seven-minute talk from Facebooks headquarters in Menlo Park, Calif., Mr. Zuckerberg suggested there may be additional fake accounts linked to Russia or other foreign countries.
We are looking into foreign actors, including additional Russian groups and other former Soviet states, he said.
Mr. Zuckerberg, 33, noted that Thursday was his first day back from parental leave after the birth of a daughter.
But despite that folksy touch, he had the look of an improbably young leader addressing his people at a moment of crisis.
With his talk of the democratic process, foreign actors, and election integrity  mentioning Germanys elections this weekend in particular  Mr. Zuckerberg reinforced Facebooks status as a transnational global behemoth whose power reaches into every corner of contemporary life.
We are in a new world, he said.
It is a new challenge for internet communities to deal with nation-states attempting to subvert elections.
But if thats what we must do, we are committed to rising to the occasion.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Despite Russias stealth attack, Mr. Zuckerberg argued that Facebook remained a force for good in democracy, promoting billions of online discussions, linking voters to candidates and helping two million Americans register to vote.
He said that positive role was 100 or 1,000 times bigger than the illicit activity.
Twitter, which has kept a low profile since Facebooks disclosure of the Russian intrusion, has announced that it will brief the Senate Intelligence Committee next Wednesday behind closed doors.
In a statement, Twitter did not address illicit Russian activity on its platform but said it deeply respects the integrity of the election process, a cornerstone of all democracies and vowed to continue to strengthen our platform against bots and other forms of manipulation.
Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the top Democrat on the intelligence committee, praised Facebooks announcement but said he still believed regulation was needed to ensure that voters know more about who is behind ads on social media.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
This is a good first step, he said.
Im disappointed its taken 10 months of raising this issue before theyve become much more transparent.
He said he believed there were additional troll farms in both Russia and Eastern Europe, and its really important that Facebook work with us to investigate other sources of advertising and fake accounts.
Mr. Warner said he believed the 3,000 ads, which the committees had not yet received, should be made public with protections for the privacy of any innocent people whose names may be in the material.
Mr. Warner and Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, circulated a letter inviting colleagues to co-sponsor a bill that would require greater transparency for online political ads, according to a copy of the letter seen by The New York Times.
A spokeswoman for Senator Richard Burr, Republican of North Carolina, who is chairman of the intelligence panel, said he had no comment Thursday night.
The Times reported this month that Russian intelligence appeared to have been behind an infestation of Twitter with automated accounts, called bots, that spread messages against Mrs. Clinton last year.
The cybersecurity company FireEye identified what it called warlists of hundreds of fake accounts that fired off identical political messages.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Times also found Facebook accounts that appeared to have been created by ordinary Americans but were actually concocted by Russian agents.
Facebook, which had said as recently as July that it had found no evidence of fraudulent Russian ad purchases, reversed itself this month and said it had removed 470 profiles and pages that it said were linked to the Internet Research Agency, a Russian company with ties to the Kremlin.
Facebook found $100,000 of ad purchases that were linked to the fake pages  designed to look like the pages of Americans animated by particular issues  that spread inflammatory messages about immigration, guns and other topics; derided Mrs. Clinton and supported Mr. Trump.
Facebook shut the accounts down in recent weeks but declined to name or describe them publicly, saying federal law prohibited it from making customer communications public.
Although Facebook had declined to identify the fake Russian pages, The Daily Beast and other news organizations ferreted out a few of them, including one called Secured Borders on immigration and another called Being Patriotic that promoted pro-Trump rallies in Florida last year.
The illicit Russian exploitation of social media fits squarely into Mr. Muellers wide-ranging investigation, and the companies said they have fully cooperated with his requests for detailed data.
Though most public attention has been focused on whether the Trump campaign helped with the Russian hacking, leaking and other intrusions, the special counsels assignment is a full and thorough investigation of the Russian governments efforts to interfere in the 2016 presidential election.
One question for Mr. Mueller is certain to be whether the Russian Facebook advertising  and any other promotions using Twitter or other services  showed evidence of the kind of sophisticated targeting that might indicate that Americans had provided assistance.
Facebook has said some of the ads were targeted to particular geographic areas but has not given details.
For the social media companies, the furor over Russias interference raises a possibility that they deeply fear: government regulation, at least for the part of their business that involves political advertising.
Political ads on social media have thus far escaped the rules that require, for instance, the familiar I approve this message tagline on candidates television spots.
Tech executives worry that new rules could hinder the worlds largest digital advertising businesses.
Because of the self-service advertising system these tech giants have created, anyone who has an account and a credit card can buy an ad.
That has made for a long tail of small-ticket advertisers who add up to millions of dollars in spending.
Facebooks number one priority is ad revenue, said Ian Schafer, chief experience officer of Engine USA, a digital advertising holding company.
The last thing Facebook wants to do is give the government an inch, because then theyll probably take a mile.
Last year, Facebook made nearly $28 billion in annual revenue, up 57 percent from a year earlier, and the trajectory remains bright.
Roughly 97 percent of that revenue came from the companys ad business.
What began as a bureaucratic gathering of diplomats at the United Nations has in recent years morphed into a business and political free-for-all, a champagne-soaked workweek of panel discussions, private dinners and high-minded pronouncements of important initiatives.
Among the many business leaders making appearances are Tim Cook of Apple, Bill and Melinda Gates, and Jack Ma, the founder and executive chairman of Alibaba.
Photo

For those who fancy themselves important actors on the world stage, the gravitational pull to New York City this week is strong, and each year, more new events are added to an already overstuffed schedule, providing more excuses to show up, and adding a few more black S.U.V.s to the crowded streets.
Ms. Keller made her own contribution to the social circuit.
On Monday night, the Beacon Institute hosted a nightcap at the Museum of Modern Art in conjunction with the B-Team, a self-selecting group of progressive business leaders.
Sipping cocktails and nibbling canaps on a terrace overlooking the MoMA sculpture garden, the 150 or so guests were entertained by the musician Butterscotch, a retro-futuristic, voice percussionist virtuosa, as her website says.
Among those in attendance were Dara Khosrowshahi, the new chief executive of Uber; Richard Branson of the Virgin Group; and Arianna Huffington.
The goal, the invitation proclaimed, was to help galvanize a movement of businesses with purpose at their heart.
But what does that mean?
What comes of so much shoulder-rubbing?
I ask myself that, Ms. Keller said.
Whats the point?
Are we just throwing a purpose party?
Photo

Perhaps.
But Ms. Keller argued that there was intrinsic merit simply in bringing together like-minded people who aspire to make capitalism a bit more equitable.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Actually, there is real value in all these individual points of light coming together and saying there is a collective vision for a world that works for everyone and an economic system that works for all, including our planet, she said.
If you collide enough of the people that care about these issues, they start remembering that this is real and its happening.
Ms. Keller and the B-Team steered clear of making any tangible promises on Monday, but others were more than happy to use the collective attention of the global press corps to announce grand new projects.
The Concordia Summit, an event started just seven years ago, drew some 3,000 attendees to the Grand Hyatt above Grand Central Terminal this week.
On Tuesday, Mastercard used the Summit to announce a new partnership with the Presidents Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief aimed at reducing the spread of HIV and AIDS.
Such public-private partnerships were the bread and butter of the Clinton Global Initiative, which ran for more than a decade.
Last year former President Bill Clinton and Hillary Clinton announced they would end it as she campaigned for president, prompting Michael R. Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York City, to step in with his own global forum.
Photo

The Bloomberg event on Wednesday, hosted at the opulent Plaza Hotel, drew some of the biggest names in town, including the Canadian prime minister, Justin Trudeau; Mr. Ma of Alibaba; the PepsiCo chief executive, Indra K. Nooyi; and Mr. Clinton himself, who delivered the opening remarks.
Travis Kalanick, the recently departed chief executive of Uber, roamed the halls.
The Clinton Global Initiative caused business to think about New York this week as a destination, said Darren Walker, the president of the Ford Foundation.
The end of CGI left a void, and this is filling that.
If any theme emerged from the conversations onstage and in press room briefings, it was that the business world had an opportunity to demonstrate some moral leadership on policy issues ranging from immigration to climate change.
Mr. Cook, Apples chief executive, said that if he were a head of state, Id want every smart person coming into my country.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Smart people create jobs, he said onstage, in an allusion to immigration policy.
Id have a very aggressive plan not to just let a few people in.
I would be recruiting.
Photo

Ajay Banga, the chief executive of Mastercard, said he was using the day to speak with peers about the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, a set of targets meant to improve quality of living for people around the world.
Theyve convened good conversations with people who are deeply committed to the SDGs, Mr. Banga said in an interview on the sidelines of the event.
The SDGs really matter.
More people should be thinking about them.
Not all the dialogue was so serious, however.
During an afternoon session, David Rubenstein, the billionaire founder of the private equity firm Carlyle Group, asked Mr. Gates, the Microsoft co-founder, if his financial support for medical advances meant people would live longer.
Im not working on that problem, Mr. Gates said.
There are other Silicon Valley billionaires who want to live forever.
As the Bloomberg event wrapped up Wednesday afternoon, Hamdi Ulukaya, the founder of Chobani, proclaimed himself satisfied with the dialogue.
The issue isnt whether we can solve poverty or climate change or income inequality, he said.
Its whether or not we can work together.
The willingness to just get together and talk  thats why were here.
But Mr. Ulukaya had to run.
On Thursday, his charity for refugees, the Tent Foundation, was hosting an event announcing new partnerships and featuring the Unilever chief executive, Paul Polman, and Airbnbs co-founder, Joe Gebbia.
There were last-minute preparations to attend to.
After that, of course, was a private dinner.
On Thursday, the airlines chief executive, Michael OLeary, apologized to investors and passengers affected at the companys annual general meeting.
Ryanair blamed a failure within its pilot rostering function for the cancellations, and said 95 percent of its customers impacted would have new travel arrangements, or refunds approved, by the end of the week.
This is a mess of our own making, Mr. OLeary had previously said.
He maintained on Thursday that the company would not have to change its profit estimates for the year, and insisted the cancellations would not create any issues with staff.
Ryanair has said a problem with the way annual leave was calculated for pilots meant that there would not be enough pilots on standby, or available to deal with emergencies or delays, leading to the mass cancellations.
It has offered its pilots bonuses worth up to 12,000 each to work additional days, and has asked that they hold off on taking some of their annual vacation allocation until next year.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Overall, the Dublin-based airline said its pilots had offered to work an extra 2,500 days collectively since the problems arose.
Analysts agreed that Ryanairs bottom line was unlikely to take a significant hit.
Ryanairs profitability leads the industry in terms of gross and net margins, said Loizos Heracleous, a professor of strategy at Warwick Business School who has researched the airline industry.
Its growth is fast and ambitious.
This impact cannot be quantified at the moment, but in any case Ryanairs other cost advantages arising from lean organization design and processes, and general efficiency culture will remain.
The airline has grown rapidly since taking its maiden flight in July 1985, using a 15-seat aircraft to fly from the south of Ireland to Londons Gatwick Airport.
It now has more than 400 Boeing 737s, and carried 12.7 million passengers last month alone.
The airline offers a single class of seating, and advertises one-way flights across Europe for as little as 10 pounds, or about $13.60.
But while its profitability may be largely unaffected, the chaos surrounding its flight cancellations could yet impact Ryanairs potential acquisition of Italys troubled flag carrier, Alitalia.
It made a nonbinding offer for Alitalia in July, and the following month, Mr. OLeary said the Italian airlines long haul fleet made it an attractive target.
Italys competition authority has already said that it will open an investigation into whether Ryanair violated the countrys consumer code over the cancellations, focusing on whether they arose out of management problems.
And Italys civil aviation authority has said it was monitoring how Ryanair responded, warning that if it found any issues with the delivery of compensation, it could penalize the company.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Konsumer, Italys consumer protection organization, has questioned whether Ryanair would be the best buyer for Alitalia, pointing to the cancellations as evidence of their concerns.
Mr. Banier, who faced up to three years in prison, vehemently denied the daughters accusations and brushed off the retainers criticisms with literary references to Molire and a play by Jean Genet about maids plotting against a rich employer.
These are people who take revenge for a life they dont have, he said.
In May 2015, the court convicted Mr. Banier of abuse and money laundering and sentenced him to three years in prison, of which six months were suspended.
He was also ordered to pay 158 million euros, or $173 million, in damages and a fine equivalent to about $418,000.
The Butler Was Taping

In 2010, the family soap opera also exploded into a government scandal after tape recordings secretly made by the dowagers butler, and accusations by a former family accountant, suggested that Mrs. Bettencourt had kept $98 million in secret Swiss bank accounts, evaded taxes, given envelopes of cash to cabinet ministers and made illegal campaign contributions to Nicolas Sarkozy shortly before his election to the French presidency in 2007.
Mr. Sarkozy denied any improprieties, but he lost the presidency to the Socialist Franois Hollande in 2012, and with it his official immunity from prosecution.
He was placed under formal investigation, suspected of having taken advantage of Mrs. Bettencourts mental frailty to obtain campaign funds.
However, French magistrates dropped the inquiry in 2013.
Photo

While she remained in the background most of her life, Mrs. Bettencourt had long tried to live down the stains of anti-Semitic activities and Nazi associations by her father and husband before and during World War II: a well-documented record of propaganda writings and material support for fascist groups, some of whose followers found refuge after the war at LOral.
Regal, extroverted, a tireless socialite who loved balls and dinner parties, jewels and haute couture, Mrs. Bettencourt was ranked by Forbes this year as the richest woman in the world, with her net worth put at $39.5 billion.
She was the majority shareholder of LOral, the worlds largest, most powerful cosmetics company.
She was the only child of Eugne Schueller, a chemist who, in the kitchen of his Paris apartment in 1907, created a hair dye he called Aurale.
His business, renamed LOral in 1939, acquired Lancme, Maybelline, Helena Rubinstein, Giorgio Armani and other brands, creating a giant that employs more than 77,000 people in 130 countries, had revenues of almost $26 billion in 2016 and is a prestigious economic engine for France.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Liliane grew up in a cocoon of privilege and secrets.
Her father was a Nazi sympathizer who acquired property taken from Jews in Germany, supported a French fascist organization in the 1930s that met at LOrals Paris headquarters, and founded a wartime movement against Bolshevism, Judaism and the Freemasons.
He was spared from prosecution as a collaborationist by the intervention of political allies, including his future son-in-law, who claimed he had joined the Resistance and saved Jews.
In 1950, Liliane Schueller married Andr Bettencourt, the scion of an old Norman Roman Catholic family.
He had been a virulently anti-Semitic propagandist early in the war  a role hidden most of his life behind the sanitizing record of his Resistance exploits in the final stages of the war.
For these, he was awarded the Croix de Guerre, made a chevalier of the Legion of Honor and promoted as a war hero in a political career that lofted him to prominence as a cabinet minister in several governments.
Mr. Schueller died in 1957, leaving his daughter billions and his controlling interest in LOral.
She became a director, but took a largely passive role as her fathers successors expanded the company around the world, ballooning the value of her holdings.
She lived in great opulence.
Her principal home, an Art Moderne mansion behind cream walls and towering pines in Neuilly-sur-Seine, was filled with antique treasures and paintings by Monet, Matisse, Picasso and Mondrian.
She owned properties in many countries, yachts in the Mediterranean and the Caribbean, and an island in the Seychelles.
Photo

Her largess was legendary.
She gave millions to education, medical research, humanitarian projects, museums and the arts.
She and her husband, who died in 2007, had long supported Frances conservative governments, and her soires were a swirl of Frances social and political beau monde.
Riches From Cosmetics

Liliane Henriette Charlotte Schueller was born in Paris on Oct. 21, 1922, to Eugne Schueller and the former Louise Madeleine Berthe Doncieux.
Her father, a university-trained chemist, had founded his company in 1909.
His innovative dye had been a sensation.
At a time when women could color their hair only black or red with natural dyes, it was one of the first stable synthetics to produce a range of subtle tints.
Liliane grew up with servants and tutors, a flow of V.I.P.s through her spacious apartment on the Left Bank, Rolls-Royces and a sumptuous home overlooking the Brittany coast.
Her mother died when she was 5, but her father took her along to his office on the Rue Royale and to his factories.
At 15, she dabbled in an apprenticeship, learning to mix cosmetics and label bottles, but never seriously worked.
Photo

Her marriage to Mr. Bettencourt added political luster to the family.
Between 1954 and 1973, he served in the cabinets of Pierre Mendes-France, Charles de Gaulle and Georges Pompidou, and in 1986 he was considered for prime minister by President Franois Mitterrand.
He later joined LOral and eventually became deputy chairman.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But he resigned in 1994 after exposs revealed that he had joined a fascist group called La Cagoule (the Cowl) early in the war and had written 60 anti-Semitic articles for La Terre Franaise, a Nazi organ.
He admitted writing them and voiced regret, citing errors of youth.
He said he had tried to rectify his mistakes by joining the Resistance.
It also emerged that Lilianes father, besides backing La Cagoule in the 1930s, had founded the anti-Semitic Revolutionary Social Movement during the war and acquired property in Karlsruhe, Germany, that had been seized from Jews in 1938, according to a lawsuit by descendants of the original owners.
It eventually became LOrals headquarters in Germany.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Liliane and Andr Bettencourts only child, Franoise, was born in 1953 and raised a Catholic.
Unlike her mother, she was an intellectual, a pianist and author.
She married Jean-Pierre Meyers, the grandson of a rabbi killed at Auschwitz, adopted her husbands religion and raised her sons in Judaism.
After her fathers death in 2007, Mrs. Bettencourt-Meyers filed a criminal complaint alleging that Mr. Banier, a 60-year-old photographer, had manipulated her mother for lavish gain.
Mr. Banier, whose work had been published in The New Yorker and Vanity Fair, had befriended Salvador Dal, Princess Caroline of Monaco and Johnny Depp, and was known as a courtier of celebrity widows.
Mrs. Bettencourt-Meyers, the principal beneficiary in her mothers will, said she had become alarmed when servants of her mother told her that Mrs. Bettencourt was considering adopting Mr. Banier.
By then he had already received a fortune in cash, art by Picasso, Matisse and Fernand Lger, life insurance annuities and DArros, a 670-acre Indian Ocean island in the Seychelles.
Mr. Banier denied any manipulation but admitted receiving gifts during what he called a decades-old platonic relationship in which he brought artists and intellectuals into the life of a woman surrounded by stuffy businessmen and politicians.
Mrs. Bettencourt did not dispute the gifts, which her lawyers valued at $1.4 billion.
(Some investigators said the value was $1.86 billion.)
She said she had given them freely.
She denied, however, that she had considered adopting Mr. Banier, and refused to submit to mental examinations.
Mother and daughter were soon estranged.
Criminal charges of exploiting Mrs. Bettencourt were filed against Mr. Banier.
But the case was postponed in July 2010 over revelations on tapes made in 2009 and 2010 by a former butler, Pascal Bonnefoy.
In the tapes, Mrs. Bettencourt talked to advisers and Mr. Banier about tax evasion, Swiss accounts and political contacts.
She also sounded forgetful at times.
At one point she could not remember if she had given Mr. Banier the island.
Daughter Is Guardian

The tapes fed a stream of leaks to the press.
One quoted Mr. Banier telling investigators that he did not want the island anyway because of the mosquitoes and the sharks.
Photo

In 2012, the Seychelles government reported that the Bettencourt family had sold the island to a Seychelles-registered conservation organization with ties to the Save Our Seas Foundation, a Swiss organization.
The Bettencourt women appeared to work out an armistice in December 2010 with an eight-page agreement that put Mrs. Bettencourt-Meyerss husband, Jean-Pierre, in charge of the family holding company, Tthys.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But more trouble erupted when the daughter discovered that Mrs. Bettencourt had invested millions in an online gambling company at the urging of the lawyer who had negotiated their peace pact.
In October 2011, a judge ordered Mrs. Bettencourt placed under her daughters guardianship after a medical evaluation found she had dementia and Alzheimers disease.
The evaluation was made by Bruno Daunizeau, a neurologist, who said she had failed to answer test questions, and by Jean-Franois Dartigues, a psychologist, who cited anosognosia, a condition in which the patient does not seem aware of the disorder.
Under the decision, Mrs. Bettencourts assets, including more than 30 percent of the voting shares of LOral, were placed in a trust controlled by her daughter, while her grandson, Jean-Victor Meyers, was named to guard her health and personal affairs.
In 2012, Mrs. Bettencourt gave up her seat on LOrals board of directors and her grandson was appointed to the board.
She is survived by her daughter and Mr. Meyers, as well as another grandson.
Resolution of the family feud, and the passing of control to another generation, eased concerns over the future of LOral.
The Bettencourt family and Nestl, the Swiss multinational food company, had long been the dominant shareholders, with roughly similar holdings.
Bettencourt control was solidified in 2014 when LOral bought back an 8 percent stake from Nestl, giving the family a controlling interest of more than 33 percent to Nestls 23 percent.
In another twist, the police investigated allegations by Claire Thibout, described as a disgruntled former family accountant, that Mrs. Bettencourt had given nearly $200,000 to President Sarkozys 2007 presidential campaign through ric Woerth, the labor minister and treasurer of the ruling political party.
French laws limit contributions to $5,800 for candidates, $9,400 for political parties and $189 in cash.
Vehement denials were issued by Mrs. Bettencourt, President Sarkozy and Mr. Woerth, who resigned his party post.
The lyse Palace called the allegations totally false, but Mr. Sarkozys approval ratings fell, and it was clear that his government had been shaken.
Independent investigations and tax audits were begun, but they were dropped after he left the presidency.
Mr. Woerth, however, went to court, accused of exploiting Mrs. Bettencourt for campaign donations.
In its ruling in 2015, the French court that sentenced Mr. Banier cleared Mr. Woerth of all charges.
Eight of 10 defendants in the case, including several of Mrs. Bettencourts former wealth managers and Mr. Baniers longtime companion, were found guilty and handed sentences that ranged from heavy fines to prison time.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Another associate of Mrs. Bettencourts  her former nurse, Alain Thurin  was also tried on charges of abusing her trust so that he could be included in her will.
On the eve of his trial, he tried to hang himself.
But in October 2015, prosecutors conceded that they did not have enough evidence to convict him, and a French court declared him not guilty.
The top 1 percent paid a total of $542.6 billion in federal tax, or an astounding 39.5 percent of the total income tax.
If you want to take a more expansive view of rich, the top 10 percent (who earn upward of $133,000) pay 71 percent of the total tax.
Do they pay the top rate?
Not by a long shot.
The average rate for the top 1 percent is 27 percent of their adjusted gross income.
(Its even lower  24 percent  for the superrich in the 0.001 percent bracket.)
The top 10 percent pay an average of 21 percent.
Thats why tax reform is all about them.
They take most of the itemized deductions and have a disproportionate share of capital gains and dividends, which are taxed at a much lower rate than salaries and wages.
Reform means ending those tax breaks, a move that always draws protests and intense lobbying from those who have benefited from them.
Getting rid of them all would enable a huge reduction in overall rates and would have the advantage of penalizing just about everyone in the upper income brackets (not to mention radically simplifying the tax code).
The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimated that the 10 largest tax expenditures (its term for what most people consider tax breaks) would amount to $12 trillion, or 5.4 percent of gross domestic product, over the decade from 2014 to 2023.
While such breaks may yield benefits, the budget office warned that they also may lead to an inefficient allocation of economic resources by encouraging more consumption of goods and services receiving preferential treatment and may subsidize activity that would have taken place without the tax incentives.
The report specifically cited the home-mortgage deduction as encouraging taxpayers to purchase more expensive homes, investing too much in housing and too little elsewhere relative to what they would do if all investments were treated equally.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But its mostly hard-core libertarians and free market purists who want to get rid of all tax breaks for the rich.
The political reality is that some of these expenditures are off the table.
The charitable deduction has proved untouchable for decades.
The top 1 percent gave $77 billion in 2014, 37 percent of total charitable contribution deductions.
Perhaps its not so bad for the rich to pay a lower marginal rate, if its because they give away so much.
So whats left?
LONG-TERM CAPITAL GAINS The biggest revenue target is the preferential rate for long-term capital gains, which raises a perennial question: Why should capital income be taxed at a much lower rate than ordinary income?
Capital assets are owned overwhelmingly by the rich.
The top 1 percent reported $561 billion in capital gains taxed at the preferential rate, or 68 percent of the total.
As a simple matter of math, the rich will never pay anything close to the top statutory rate as long so much of their income is taxed at a much lower rate (currently 20 percent for the top bracket, not counting the Affordable Care Act surcharge of 3.8 percent).
The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the preferential capital-gains rate will cost the Treasury $1.34 trillion from 2014 to 2023.
Were taxing the rich much too lightly because we tax capital so much less than labor, said Steven M. Rosenthal, a senior fellow at the Tax Policy Center.
Mr. Rosenthal favors taxing capital gains at the same rate as regular income  the approach adopted in the Tax Reform Act of 1986 during the Reagan administration and one supported by many economists.
That would eliminate a host of tax shelters that capitalize on the differential, including special treatment for carried interest, a form of income for many wealthy hedge fund and private equity managers.
This path would require Republicans to set aside a long-held belief that lower capital-gains rates promote more economic growth and investment.
But that doesnt mean capital-gains rates have to be lower than rates for ordinary income.
Theres no support for the idea that not taxing capital unleashes economic growth, Mr. Rosenthal said.
He noted that after the 1986 tax reforms, the economy did great.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
If Republicans are correct that lower rates spur economic growth, then lower rates on all income  made possible in part by raising capital-gains rates  should bolster economic growth across the economy.
CAPITAL GAINS AT DEATH Another big break for the rich is that capital gains go untaxed at death.
Why should that be the case?
Republicans could probably exempt family farms and family-owned businesses from the estate tax  or even eliminate it  if the government simply taxed other capital gains (like appreciated stock) transferred at death.
The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the exclusion will cost the Treasury $644 billion from 2014 to 2023.
That would also address the probability that raising rates on long-term capital gains would encourage investors to defer selling assets, thus postponing or escaping the tax.
While higher capital-gains rates might encourage holding assets longer (which some economists consider a good thing), eliminating the special treatment at the investors death would ensure that the gains were eventually taxed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And given that the Trump administrations proposed 15 percent corporate tax rate is in many ways a windfall to shareholders, it seems only fair to tax their capital gains at higher rates.
You cant really broaden the base without addressing capital gains, said Frank Clemente, executive director of the liberal-leaning Americans for Tax Fairness He, too, favors taxing capital gains at death.
STATE AND LOCAL TAXES Next largest of the major tax breaks is the deduction for state and local taxes, which the Congressional Budget Office estimates will cost the government nearly $1.1 trillion over 10 years.
The deduction is on the chopping block under virtually all Republican proposals.
It obviously hits high-tax states the hardest, which tend to be Democratic strongholds like New York and California.
Many economists agree, including N. Gregory Mankiw of Harvard, who told me this week that he favored eliminating the deduction.
That deduction, too, overwhelmingly benefits the rich.
Most middle-class and low-income taxpayers dont itemize deductions, even in high-tax states, so they get no benefit.
The top 1 percent accounts for 27 percent of the total taxes-paid deduction.
Democrats, many representing high-tax states, have said eliminating the deduction is out of the question in any tax negotiations.
One compromise that might attract at least some Democratic support would be to retain the deduction, but only for taxpayers with incomes below a certain level.
MORTGAGE INTEREST Like the charitable deduction, the mortgage-interest deduction has long survived reform attempts.
But unlike breaks that encourage giving, its hard to defend tax incentives that enable the rich to buy ever-more-expensive houses and apartments (with sale prices now pushing above $100 million in a few markets) when middle- and lower-income taxpayers are being priced out of many cities.
As with state and local taxes, most middle- and lower-income taxpayers dont itemize, so they dont benefit from the mortgage deduction.
The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the mortgage deduction will cost the Treasury about $1 trillion, slightly less than the state and local tax deduction, over a decade.
But its not as skewed as heavily toward the top 1 percent  they account for under 10 percent of the total interest-paid deduction.
That may be because many of the rich dont need to borrow to buy a house (or houses).
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As with state and local taxes, one approach would be to eliminate the deduction only for high-income taxpayers.
The Tax Foundation has offered a proposal to lower the cap on mortgage deductions to $500,000 from $1 million, which it says would raise about $300 billion over the next decade, primarily from high-income taxpayers.
A study by the foundation also found that the mortgage deduction had disproportionately favored taxpayers in states with high real-estate costs, which also tend to be blue states like New York and California.
The mortgage deduction is supposed to make homes more affordable, but do people with mortgages over $500,000 really need that?
asked Kyle Pomerleau, director of federal projects at the Tax Foundation and the author of the study.
There are plenty of egregious smaller loopholes that should be eliminated, like the provision that lets real-estate developers (but not the rest of us) deduct passive losses against ordinary income.
But these are the big four, based on Congressional Budget Office estimates.
In total, they will cost the government $4.1 trillion over 10 years.
(This doesnt guarantee that the government would actually raise that much if the tax breaks were eliminated, because the estimates dont account for the way taxpayers would change their behavior, such as by deferring capital gains.)
Conversely, if proposed reforms dont address the biggest tax breaks, there will be little room to reduce rates over all  which is the carrot to make reform more palatable.
If all you do is eliminate the state and local tax deduction, theres not much room to maneuver, Mr. Pomerleau said.
Photo

Jeffrey Mezger, chief executive of the homebuilder KB Home, will take a 25 percent cut to his year-end bonus as a result of his sexist and homophobic outburst against his neighbor, the comedian Kathy Griffin, the company said Thursday.
Any similar incidents in the future, the company also said, would result in Mr. Mezgers dismissal.
Mr. Mezger was recorded on Saturday by security cameras at Ms. Griffins home in the Bel Air neighborhood of Los Angeles shouting profanities and derogatory comments at Ms. Griffin and her boyfriend, Randy Bick, after they had called the police to complain about noise from Mr. Mezgers backyard.
The audio recording, published by HuffPost, provoked an immediate backlash on social media.
KB Home, one of the largest homebuilders in the country, said that its board decided to reduce Mr. Mezgers bonus, which he would receive at the end of its 2017 fiscal year in November.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The value of the bonus, which KB Home called an annual cash incentive payment, is unclear.
Last year, Mr. Mezger earned nearly $9 million in total compensation, making him the fifth-highest-paid chief executive among publicly traded homebuilding companies in the United States, according to Builder magazine.
Photo

Nobody appointed me vice president of customer service for Equifax, but somebody had to do the job.
When Equifax told the world on Sept. 7 that thieves had helped themselves to as many as 143 million Social Security numbers, it sent people to a website for more information.
The website barely functioned.
Those who turned to the phones overwhelmed Equifaxs call centers, and people who did get through found that most representatives were not helpful.
To make matters worse, some of those centers were right in the path of Hurricane Irma.
Meanwhile, I was in the midst of my own storm minidrama, as I needed to travel to Florida to help my siblings get our father out of the hurricanes way.
My initial flight was canceled just as the Equifax story broke, and by the time we closed the first news story the night of Sept. 7, my only way to Orlando to catch up with my family was on a 6 a.m. flight the next day.
Delirious from lack of sleep and frantically reading competitors coverage and consumer complaints on Twitter as the plane doors closed before dawn that day, I realized I needed to write a column giving people instructions on how to set up freezes on their credit files so that thieves could not open new accounts in their names.
While I was up in the air, reader emails started landing, first in a trickle and then  as the days went by and I wrote another column and another and another  in a torrent, at one point averaging nearly one a minute.
Some asked questions I had not thought of and pointed out precisely how the promises that Equifax was making to fix things were not necessarily holding up: Equifax was basing PIN numbers for lifting credit freezes on the date and time that people called, for instance, which was hardly the kind of security most people were looking for postbreach.
Others were astounded that Equifax had the gall to charge for permanent credit freezes.
I highlighted these complaints and frustrations in my ensuing columns, all the while responding to individual emails.
I managed to reply to the first several hundred notes, but a backlog built up as the hurricane came and went and I transported my father back home.
(Dad is fine, as is his house, so we were lucky.)
Of the 1,000 cartoons submitted to The New Yorker each week, only about 15 are published in the magazine.
That is a pretty high bar, though logic might suggest there are some gems among the rejects.
At least, that is David Ostows theory.
He has been submitting his cartoons to the magazine since early last year, but has yet to be published in it.
Instead of reeling from repeated rejection, Mr. Ostow, an architect and illustrator, decided to embrace it: Why not share his illustrations and the work of others with the public, who may appreciate the attempts at wit?
The result is the exhibition Not OK  Great Cartoons That Werent Good Enough, with 45 pieces by 15 artists at Kave Espresso Bar and Event Space.
The show opens Friday, as part of this weekends Bushwick Open Studios, and will run through Dec. 15.
When you try to get into The New Yorker, youre generating so much content and so much gets rejected, Mr. Ostow said.
People end up with mounds of stuff they either have to put in the closet or self-publish.
It wasnt hard to find artists to contribute to the show, especially since a community had built up on social media, where the cartoonists shared rejected work, sometimes soliciting advice on how to tweak an image or a joke.
A similar group had formed in real life  among the friends and cartoonists who pitch their work in person every Tuesday at The New Yorker offices at 1 World Trade Center.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The cartoons on view have a range of styles, sensibilities and some unexpected bursts of color: One from Mitra Farmand shows three protesters holding blank placards as they shout, We need markers!
; Lars Kenseth considers a different meaning of the roadway merging of automobiles; and Amy Kurzweil depicts Mr. and Mrs.
Potato Head playing Twister in a way only they can.
Each of the cartoonists has had work published in the magazine; Mr. Kenseth has sold 12 cartoons for print and six for The New Yorkers Daily Cartoons and Daily Shouts online sections.
(Mr. Ostow has also had success there with two humorous illustrations for Daily Shouts.)
Some Cartoons That Missed the Cut

The New Yorker is highly selective of the cartoons it publishes.
Here are cartoons that didnt make it.
The field of political economy was a branch of philosophy, and it would be more than a century before practitioners scientific aspirations changed the term to economics (with the s representing science).
The book that established Smiths reputation for most of his professional life was called The Theory of Moral Sentiments.
Smith published only two significant works, with The Wealth of Nations coming a full 17 years after Moral Sentiments.
Although it would not be fair to call the ultimately more famous book a sequel to his first, The Wealth of Nations is not fully intelligible without understanding that context.
In The Infidel and the Professor: David Hume, Adam Smith and the Friendship that Shaped Modern Thought, Dennis Rasmussen, a professor of political theory at Tufts University, ably provides much of that needed context.
In addition to painting a vivid portrait of the intellectual life of 18th-century Scotland, Professor Rasmussen provides a road map of the development of Smiths ideas based on his personal history and the broader political, social, theological and academic environments.
Photo

Professor Rasmussens greatest contribution, however, is to shed new light on the surprising depth and nature of the intellectual and personal influence of the radical skeptic philosopher David Hume on Smith.
If Smith was the ultimate establishment figure, Hume was the ultimate subversive.
Widely viewed as one of the greatest philosophers  if not the greatest  ever to write in English, Hume had already gained international renown before Smith produced his first book.
Yet Humes radical ideas, particularly on the nature of religious belief, ensured that he could never secure a university position of any kind  and prompted two failed efforts by the Church of Scotland to have him excommunicated.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It was not just in their lifetimes that Humes renown outstripped Smiths.
Humes continuing impact on individual thinkers and broader fields of study is truly breathtaking.
Kant, Darwin and Einstein (who credited him with inspiration for relativity theory) is a short list of great minds deeply influenced by Hume.
And, in addition to the effect of his thought on economics, he is considered by some to be the father of modern cognitive science.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Hume was a dozen years Smiths senior.
The two met shortly after Smith had completed his studies, but before he had secured a university position.
Hume had already published his first major, and scandalously received, work.
It is not completely clear how or why they connected, given their vast differences in both position and disposition: Hume was large and gregarious, Smith more of an absent-minded professor type.
What is evident from the excellent use Professor Rasmussen makes of their letters and those of contemporaries is that the two quickly became devoted to one another.
One of the more interesting aspects of The Infidel is the extent to which the profound role of friendship in the thought of both Hume and Smith, neither of whom ever married, was colored by their own deep attachment.
The most engaging aspects of the story relate to the nature of that friendship.
Less satisfying is the description of how precisely the relationship shaped modern thought.
Professor Rasmussen does a fine job of demonstrating how closely the thinkers views align in a wide variety of areas, even where it is not readily apparent.
But many of their most famous and influential ideas are not closely examined.
There is, for instance, little discussion of either Smiths invisible hand or Humes is-ought problem.
Humes impending death in 1776  he had grown ill by that year, with what was probably some kind of cancer  was the source of great public interest, particularly among those most horrified by his skeptical views on religious belief.
The philosopher wrote a short autobiography at the time, in part to demonstrate that he had managed to live and die happily and virtuously, without religion.
The resulting funeral oration for myself was sure to be a source of disappointment for those who had hoped for a recantation or at least moderation of his previous views in the face of imminent expiry.
It was, however, not entirely unexpected.
What was a source of both shock and fury was a letter appended to every edition of the work from Adam Smith, describing the cheerfulness and equanimity of his dear friends final days.
Even more infuriating was Smiths overall conclusion that Hume approached as nearly to the idea of a perfectly wise and virtuous man, as perhaps the nature of human frailty will permit.
Smith had spent his life and career avoiding the kind of controversy and offense that Hume had reveled in.
By associating his name and reputation with such a strong defense of Humes moral character, Smith risked not only his social and professional standing, but the fortunes of his long-gestating masterpiece, The Wealth of Nations, which had just finally been published.
Smiths letter was certainly an act of bravery and a reflection of the depth of his intellectual debt to Hume.
As Professor Rasmussen argues, it also represents a kind of paean to friendship.
The same could be said of Professor Rasmussens touching and illuminating book.
Downgrades Chinas Credit Rating

Standard & Poors move, which cut Chinas sovereign rating to A+ from AA-, was its first reduction in the rating since 1999.
The outlook on China was changed to stable from negative.
From Bloomberg:

Chinas prolonged period of strong credit growth has increased its economic and financial risks, S.&P.
Although this credit growth had contributed to strong real G.D.P.
growth and higher asset prices, we believe it has also diminished financial stability to some extent.
Moodys had cut Chinas credit rating in May.
The S.E.C.
Was Hacked

Hackers penetrated the Securities and Exchange Commissions electronic system for storing public company filings and may have traded on them.
The Wall Street Journals Dave Michaels reports:

The commission said the hack was detected in 2016, but that regulators didnt learn about the possibility of related illicit trading until August, when they started an investigation and began cooperating with what the S.E.C.
called appropriate authorities.
From the S.E.C.
statement:

Specifically, a software vulnerability in the test filing component of the commissions Edgar system, which was patched promptly after discovery, was exploited and resulted in access to nonpublic information.
It is believed the intrusion did not result in unauthorized access to personally identifiable information, jeopardize the operations of the commission, or result in systemic risk.
As The Timess Carlos Tejada writes:

The disclosure, coming on the heels of a data breach at Equifax, the major consumer credit reporting firm, will likely intensify concerns over potential computer vulnerabilities lurking among pillars of the American financial system.
On that note 

 Someone made a fake Equifax site.
Then Equifax linked to it.
If you were expecting some type of criminal prosecution or regulatory penalty for Equifax, you may be disappointed, DealBooks Peter J. Henning writes.
Preet Bharara Is Back

Photo

So, as you may have read, I was fired by the president of the United States.
Thats Preet Bharara, the newly minted podcast host, on the first episode of his show, Stay Tuned With Preet.
Yes, its the same Mr. Bharara who was the former United States attorney for the Southern District of New York and who led the biggest campaign since the 1980s against insider trading.
And its the same Mr. Bharara who was fired by President Trump in March.
The Highlight

At the start of the podcast, Mr. Bharara recounted his interactions with Mr. Trump in the months leading up to his dismissal as a United States attorney.
The top quote:

Had I not been fired, and had Donald Trump continued to cultivate a direct personal relationship with me, its my strong belief that at some point, given the history, the president of the United States would have asked me to do something inappropriate.
And I would have resigned then.
Beyond Podcasts

What else is keeping the former prosecutor busy?
Well, hes a:

 Senior legal analyst at CNN,

 Distinguished scholar in residence at New York Universitys School of Law,

 Executive vice president at Some Spider Studios, the media company run by his brother, and

 Author of a forthcoming book about the search for justice.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As Mr. Bharara said on Twitter, Cant live by 140-character quips alone.
Beginning of the End for Quantitative Easing

Photo

I think that the American people should feel the steps we are taking to normalize monetary policy are ones that we feel are well justified given the very substantial progress weve seen in the economy.
Janet L. Yellen, on the decision by the Federal Reserve to eventually end its economic stimulus campaign of buying United States government bonds.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the DealBook Newsletter Every weekday, twice a day, get the news driving the markets and the latest on mergers and acquisitions.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Worth Noting

Many analysts and economists are puzzled by a weakening of inflation in recent months, even as the labor market tightens.
Ms. Yellen conceded that the phenomenon is a mystery.
But she suggested that the Fed still planned to raise lending rates at its next meeting in December.
The Reaction

 The Standard & Poors 500-stock index was flat at 2,508.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose 0.37 percent to 2.276 percent.
MarketWatch notes that it was the bonds highest level in five weeks.
Bloomberg Global Business Forum

Sure, world leaders and top business moguls gathered in New York for the United Nations General Assembly.
But many of them also showed up at the Plaza Hotel for Bloombergs first Global Business Forum.
Michael R. Bloombergs Twitter account highlights some of the boldfaced names in attendance:

 Alibabas Jack Ma, like Masayoshi Son of SoftBank, considered the rise of the machines, Axioss Alayna Treene reported.
Mr. Ma said that in the past 30 years we made people like machines.
In the next 30 years well make the machines like people.
But people shouldnt worry, because although machines will be faster and stronger than humans, human beings have the heart, soul, beliefs, and value.
Son, who was sitting next to the Microsoft founder Bill Gates, said, For three days I became richer than Bill Gates.
Twelve months later, I became almost broke.
And Mr. Gates?
Its fine to celebrate success, but it is more important to heed the lessons of failure.
Business Takes on DACA, Round 2

Top executives on Wednesday sent another letter defending the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA.
As of this writing, 795 people had signed on.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This time, the letter is addressed to congressional leaders, saying:

Congressional action and a permanent legislative solution is the only path forward to prevent these devastating consequences.
This is urgent, and we only have a few months to act.
Tim Cook of Apple, who signed the letter, defended DACA at the Bloomberg forum:

DealBook Extra

TPGs co-chief executives, Jim Coulter and Jon Winkelried, were among the co-signers of Wednesdays letter.
But their firm is doing something else as well.
The investment firm said that it would essentially cover portfolio companies expenses in helping so-called Dreamer employees renew their DACA status before the Trump administrations Oct. 5 deadline.
(The initiative is specifically for DACA recipients whose legal status expires on or before March 5.)
Stat of the Day

Courtesy of CNBCs Carl Quintanilla:

The Context

Procter & Gamble is locked in a fight with Trian Partnerss Nelson Peltz, who wants a seat on the board of the consumer product giant.
Pilot, an Internet Service Start-up, Raises $17 Million

The company, which provides lower-cost fiber internet services to businesses, has raised $17 million in a new round of financing.
(DealBook is the first to report the new round.)
The round, led by Foundry Group, brings Pilots total fund-raising to $32.3 million.
The company is building its own software to find unused internet fiber, and has rewired much of that infrastructure itself.
Pilot says its service is now used by more than 50,000 users at 1,000 customers.
It now operates in New York City, Philadelphia, Washington and Boston.
Its 23-year-old founder, Joseph Fasone, was previously at WeWork.
The telecommunications industry is undergoing consolidation, and a company like Pilot would seem to be a candidate for acquisition.
But Seth Levine of Foundry Group told DealBook of the start-up: It can truly build a public-scale business.
But S.&P.
warned on Thursday that China has been borrowing heavily  too heavily  to sustain that growth.
State-controlled banks have been funneling big loans to wasteful, chronically unprofitable state-run companies.
Indebted local governments have been borrowing heavily as well.
Even Chinas national government, fairly cautious in its previous borrowing, has been running budget deficits lately, and the countrys famously frugal households have begun using more credit.
The downgrade reflects our assessment that a prolonged period of strong credit growth has increased Chinas economic and financial risks, S.&P.
said in a statement.
China has acknowledged a number of the problems.
It has moved to rein in the proliferation of investment products sold to many Chinese households that funneled money into questionable projects.
It has also called to heel a number of Chinese companies that officials believed were making too many reckless acquisitions abroad.
Still, reaction to the downgrade was harsh.
In a lengthy statement on Friday, Chinas Finance Ministry called the move a mistaken decision and labeled concerns about Chinas debt stale news.
It cited the countrys efforts to close excess factories and streamline industries that suffer from overcapacity and significant moves toward reform.
It also cited the Chinese governments deep financial resources to address any potential debt shocks.
This type of misreading neglects the Chinese economys good fundamentals and development potential, it said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The government is likely to be particularly upset because S.&P.
issued the downgrade less than a month before the start of the Communist Party Congress.
The meeting is expected to reconfirm President Xi Jinping as the countrys core leader, but move some new officials to serve with him.
Mr. Xi has made political and economic stability the countrys top priority in the months leading up to the congress.
That has included allowing the state-controlled banking system to continue, and even expand, its already heavy lending since midsummer, while a modest effort in late spring to limit the growth in lending has been pursued with less zeal.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

S.&P.
downgraded its rating on the countrys sovereign debt by one notch.
Warnings about Chinas borrowing are not new.
In the span of nearly a decade, China went from a country with few loans to one with debt levels comparable to those of the United States.
While economists say China has plenty of financial firepower to address debt-related problems, the speed of the accumulation and the heavy lending in particular to rusty old industries such as steel and cement could cause issues.
This wont be news to anyone who has kept half an eye on China over recent years and shouldnt change anyones thinking, Capital Economics, a research firm, said in a statement on Thursday evening, adding that since Moodys downgraded China in May and Fitch Ratings, another ratings firm, did so in 2013, S.&P.
is playing catch-up.
More recently, many economists have become more sanguine about the potential for short-term problems in China, even as they continue to worry about the long-term impact of the countrys heady growth in debt.
Over the past year, China has stanched a huge outflow of money that shaved $1 trillion from its currency reserves, stabilized its currency after a shocking devaluation two years ago and restored some health to its stock market.
But S.&P.s move could offer a reminder that those problems are not going away.
The Chinese government has taken a number of small steps over the past year to rein in borrowing.
While debt is still rising, it is not doing so quite as quickly relative to the size of the economy as it was a year ago.
Banking regulators have also put pressure on financial institutions to move more fund-raising activities onto their balance sheets, in an effort to tame the countrys large shadow banking sector.
also pointed out that China has a number of tools at its disposal to deal with any disruption resulting from its hefty debt levels.
They include hefty foreign exchange reserves, large net overseas investments and large trade surpluses with other nations.
downgraded its rating on China to A+ from AA, but with a stable outlook, meaning that the company does not anticipate another rating change in the short term.
It said it expected Chinas growth to slow to 5.8 percent by 2020.
While that figure would be the envy of many countries, and S.&P.
called it strong, it would represent a slowdown from last year, with 6.7 percent growth.
At a time when many foreign governments and economists have become wary of drawing Beijings wrath by questioning its authoritarian policies, S.&P.
also took the uncommon step of singling out Chinas secrecy as being out of line with other countries with similar credit ratings.
Compared with these peers, the firm said, China has lower average income, less transparency, and a more restricted flow of information.
Youve got rising market power, said Marshall Steinbaum, an economist at the Roosevelt Institute, a liberal think tank.
In general, that makes it hard for new businesses to compete with incumbents.
Market power is the story that explains everything.
That argument comes at a potent political moment.
Populists on both the left and right have responded to growing public unease about the corporate giants that increasingly dominate their online and offline lives.
Polling data from Gallup and other organizations shows a long-running decline in confidence in banks and other big businesses  a concern not likely to abate after high-profile data breaches at Equifax and other companies.
The start-up slump has far-reaching implications.
Small businesses in general are often cited as an exemplar of economic dynamism.
But it is start-ups  and particularly the small subset of companies that grow quickly  that are key drivers of job creation and innovation, and have historically been a ladder into the middle class for less-educated workers and immigrants.
Perhaps most significant, start-ups play a critical role in making the economy as a whole more productive, as they invent new products and approaches, forcing existing businesses to compete or fall by the wayside.
Across the decades, young companies are really the heavy hitters and the consistent hitters in terms of job creation, said Arnobio Morelix, an economist at the Kauffman Foundation, a nonprofit in Kansas City, Mo., that studies and promotes entrepreneurship.
The start-up decline might defy expectations in the age of Uber and Shark Tank.
But however counterintuitive, the trend is backed by multiple data sources and numerous economic studies.
Photo

In 1980, according to the Census Bureau data, roughly one in eight companies had been founded in the past year; by 2015, that ratio had fallen to fewer than one in 12.
The downward trend cuts across regions and industries and, at least since 2000, includes even the beating heart of American entrepreneurship, high tech.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Although the overall slump dates back more than 30 years, economists are most concerned about a more recent trend.
In the 1980s and 1990s, the entrepreneurial slowdown was concentrated in sectors such as retail, where corner stores and regional brands were being subsumed by national chains.
That trend, though often painful for local communities, wasnt necessarily a drag on productivity more generally.
Since about 2000, however, the slowdown has spread to parts of the economy more often associated with high-growth entrepreneurship, including the technology sector.
That decline has coincided with a period of weak productivity growth in the United States as a whole, a trend that has in turn been implicated in the patterns of fitful wage gains and sluggish economic growth since the recession.
Recent research has suggested that the decline in entrepreneurship, and in other measures of business dynamism, is one cause of the prolonged stagnation in productivity.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Weve got lots of pieces now that say dynamism has gone down a lot since 2000, said John Haltiwanger, a University of Maryland economist who has done much of the pioneering work in the field.
Start-ups have gone down a lot since 2000, especially in the high-tech sectors, and there are increasingly strong links to productivity.
What is behind the decline in entrepreneurship is less clear.
Economists and other experts have pointed to a range of possible explanations: The aging of the baby-boom generation has left fewer Americans in their prime business-starting years.
The decline of community banks and the collapse of the market for home-equity loans may have made it harder for would-be entrepreneurs to get access to capital.
Increased regulation, at both the state and federal levels, may be particularly burdensome for new businesses that lack well-staffed compliance departments.
Those and other factors could well play a role, but none can fully explain the decline.
More recently, economists  especially but not exclusively on the left  have begun pointing the finger at big business, and in particular at the handful of companies that increasingly dominate many industries.
% 40 35 30 Large (5,000+) Medium (100-4,999) Small (<100 employees) 1980 1990 2000 2010 The share of employees working at large, medium and small companies in the United States.
% 40 35 30 Large (5,000+) Medium (100-4,999) Small (less than 100 employees) 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 The share of employees working at large, medium and small companies in the United States.
The evidence is largely circumstantial: The slump in entrepreneurship has coincided with a period of increasing concentration in nearly every major industry.
Research from Mr. Haltiwanger and several co-authors has found that the most productive companies are growing more slowly than in the past, a hint that competitive pressures arent forcing companies to react as quickly to new innovations.
A recent working paper from economists at Princeton and University College London found that American companies are increasingly able to demand prices well above their costs  which according to standard economic theory would lead new companies to enter the market.
Yet that isnt happening.
If were in an era of excessive profits, in competitive markets we would see record firm entry, but we see the opposite, said Ian Hathaway, an economist who has studied the issue.
That, Mr. Hathaway said, suggests that the market is not truly competitive  that existing companies have found ways to block competitors.
Experts also point to anecdotal examples that suggest that the rise of big businesses could be squelching competition.
YouTube, Instagram and hundreds of lower-profile start-ups chose to sell out to industry heavyweights like Google and Facebook rather than try to take them on directly.
The tech giants have likewise been accused of using the power of their platforms to favor their own offerings over those of competitors.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Most recently, Amazon openly called for a bidding war among cities for its second headquarters  hardly the kind of demand a new start-up could make.
Mr. Morelix said the Amazon example was particularly striking.
Were saying that its O.K.
that they shape how a city charges taxes?
Mr. Morelix said.
And what kind of regulations they have?
That should be terrifying to anyone that wants a free market.
In Washington, where for years politicians have praised small businesses while catering to big ones, issues of competition and entrepreneurship are increasingly drawing bipartisan attention.
Several Republican presidential candidates referred to the start-up slump during last years primary campaign.
Progressive Democrats such as Senators Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota have pushed for stricter enforcement of antitrust rules.
In a speech in March, Ms. Klobuchar explicitly tied the struggles of entrepreneurs to rising corporate concentration.
In July, entrepreneurs achieved a mark of political relevance: their own advocacy group.
The newly formed Center for American Entrepreneurship will conduct research on the importance of new businesses to the economy and push for policies aimed at improving the start-up rate.
Its founding president, John Dearie, comes from big business  he was most recently the acting head of the Financial Services Forum, which represents big financial institutions.
Everybody loves entrepreneurship, but theyre not aware its in trouble, Mr. Dearie said.
If new businesses are the engine of net new job creation, and if new businesses are the engine of innovation, and new business creation is at 30-year lows, thats a national emergency.
We dont really see this trend ending anytime soon, said Marci Freede, who opened the Paint Place on the Upper West Side of Manhattan in 2014 and added a second location, in Astoria, Queens, last year.
Photo

Photo

Whether run by franchisees or sole proprietors, the classes have a similar structure: An artist offers step-by-step instructions on how to paint a predetermined image.
While they paint, customers enjoy an alcoholic beverage of their choice (or, if they prefer, coffee or water).
And when they finish, they get to keep their creations.
Classes can cost $35 to $65 a person, depending on location and format.
Cathy Deano, a founder of Painting With a Twist, which is based in Mandeville, La., said that most participants had not done much painting, if any, before taking a class, and that having a few sips of wine helped tame what she called the white canvas anxiety that novice artists can feel when starting a painting.
It just relaxes them, she said.
I tell my husband, Its like going fishing, said Susan Jean, the proprietor of Painting With a Twists Bentonville location.
You drink a little, talk a lot and bring something home.
Ms. Jean, 59, said she had always wanted to run her own business and had decided on a paint-and-sip shop after taking a class with her sister.
She is not an artist herself: I cant paint a wall, she said with a shrug.
She hires local artists to teach the classes, while she and her daughter, Katie Collins, run the business.
Some classes are open to anyone; others are geared toward couples or girls night out groups.
Companies also schedule classes as team-building exercises or fund-raising events.
The paint-and-sip trend has been driven in part by a generally heightened interest in wine, said Ben Litalien, an instructor in the franchise-management certificate program at Georgetown Universitys School of Continuing Studies.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But, Mr. Litalien said, consumers were also increasingly being drawn to experiences that engage them and allow them to express themselves, rather than simply buying something.
Other examples of experience-based businesses that he cited included Top Golf, where customers play golf-related games, and escape rooms, where participants solve puzzles together.
The growth of such businesses may reflect the findings of recent psychological research showing that people are happier when they have an experience rather than making a purchase.
In a 2014 article in Psychological Science (title: Waiting for Merlot), researchers at Cornell University and the University of California, San Francisco, found that just the anticipation of experiences could be more pleasurable than the anticipation of buying merchandise.
Starting a Painting With a Twist location requires an initial franchise fee of $25,000; total upfront costs, including that fee, can run from $89,000 to $188,000, depending on location.
The companys franchise agreement calls for a seven-year commitment.
Annual gross revenue for individual outlets averages about $388,000, according to Painting With a Twist.
Mr. Litalien said that demand for so-called experiential classes was high and that there appeared to be little risk of cannibalization as the industry grew.
A potential long-term challenge was getting customers to return, especially, he said, as the novelty subsides.
In other words, how many paintings of sunsets and butterflies do people want, even if they painted them themselves?
Some outlets are trying different approaches to keep the experience fresh.
Bottle & Bottega, which is based in Chicago, offers classes to personalize a wine glass or holiday ornament.
It also offers bachelorette parties, where participants paint a nude male model.
Bottle & Bottegas website describes the sessions as fun, classy and upscale.
Photo

Photo

Ms. Freede of the Paint Place said her outlets tried to spice things up as well, offering erotic painting nights for couples.
Nothing vulgar, she said, just paintings that might be a bit more risqu than those offered on a typical night.
Many locations tap into Americans obsession with dogs and cats by offering Paint Your Pet classes.
Participants provide photographs of their pets in advance, which an artist sketches in pencil.
Classes are then devoted to finishing the images with paint.
Those always sell out, said Ms. Collins of the Painting With a Twist location here.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Studios also try to connect painting classes to the wider world.
The Bentonville group, for instance, painted a purple-hued eclipse, in honor of the solar eclipse in August.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Shelby Nichols, the instructor for the two-hour session in Bentonville on that August Friday, stepped onto a raised platform.
Wearing a headset with a microphone, she ran through a checklist of supplies: chalk, paint and brushes.
Were going to put the first layer on a bit thin, she said, demonstrating on her own canvas.
Dont glop it on!
Ms. Nichols, 31, a professional illustrator, said she enjoyed moonlighting as a teacher for inexperienced artists.
Im a ham, she said, so I like being on stage.
As she delivered instructions, a playlist featuring the singer Bruno Mars and 80s bands like Simple Minds provided a soundtrack.
Ms. Collins surveyed the room and offered encouragement.
As the session proceeded, the mood grew increasingly relaxed, an end-of-week feeling combined with the effect of the alcohol.
The sessions are as much about socializing as they are about art.
Resist the urge to paint the middle right now, Ms. Nichols admonished, as the participants painted a yellow oval.
Resist!
Photo

The class was a mix of couples, friends, newcomers and regulars.
Gayle Jackson, 70, sipped a glass of white wine as she painted.
She said she considered the drink incidental to the camaraderie.
Im a widow, she said, and this gets me out.
She added that it also gave her ideas for painting at home with her grandchildren.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

At the next table, Lexy Paryzek, 25, a human resources manager at a hospital, and her date, Jonathan Hendrix, 29, a real estate appraiser, shared a bottle of wine.
Mr. Hendrix said it was their second visit; it had been his idea to bring Ms. Paryzek the first time.
Its quality time together, he said, adding that it was nice to have a date night that did not involve a bar.
This time, they had brought along their mothers, who sat across the table.
Its just relaxing, said Mr. Hendrixs mother, Karen Hendrix, who had been before.
Im a teachers aide, so I need some stress-free time.
Local regulations governing such businesses vary.
Some paint-and-sip locations allow people to bring their own alcohol, but others do not and require patrons to buy drinks on site.
Classes typically last just two hours, so it is rare for someone to get too tipsy, Ms. Collins said.
The exception is on weekends, when it is sometimes obvious that a patron has been pre-gaming, drinking before class.
In those instances, she said, she makes sure to ask if the person has a ride home.
So far, she said, weve never had to shut somebody off.
Patrons have mostly been able to follow an instructors directions, but occasionally someone will need extra help.
Once, Ms. Collins said, a male patron planned to paint Will you marry me?
on a canvas and present it to his girlfriend as a proposal, but he got too nervous.
The instructor finished it for him.
