((Editors Note: Language in paragraph 10 contains strong language which might be offensive to some readers))

By James Oliphant and Valerie Volcovici

SOMERSET, N.J. (Reuters) - National Football League players sat out, knelt and linked arms during pre-game national anthems played across the country and in London on Sunday, hours after U.S. President Donald Trump called on fans to boycott teams that do not discipline players who protest.
In the first few games since Trump stepped up his criticism of NFL players, dozens of players and coaches of teams including the Baltimore Ravens, Jacksonville Jaguars, Philadelphia Eagles and Miami Dolphins did not stand for the anthem and took a knee, a gesture that began last year as a protest over police treatment of African-Americans and other minorities.
The Pittsburgh Steelers waited off the field during the national anthem before their game against the Chicago Bears in Chicago on Sunday afternoon to avoid playing politics in divisive times, coach Mike Tomlin said.
And in Philadelphia, city police officers joined with Eagles players and team owner Jeffrey Lurie to link arms during the anthem in a sign of solidarity.
The defiant moves came in response to a series of comments made by Trump over the weekend criticizing players who refuse to stand for the national anthem.
If NFL fans refuse to go to games until players stop disrespecting our Flag & Country, you will see change take place fast, Trump wrote on Sunday morning on Twitter.
Fire or suspend!
In a second tweet, Trump, who is spending the weekend at his golf club in Bedminster, New Jersey, said that the league should back fans who are upset about the protests.
The form of protest began in 2016 when then San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick put one knee to the ground during pre-game renditions of the Star Spangled Banner.
Several players have since made similar gestures of protest before games.
Kaepernick initially started his protests last year by sitting during the anthem but when critics said it was a sign of disrespect, he instead took to kneeling.
At a political rally in Alabama on Friday, Trump suggested any protesting football player was a son of a bitch and should lose his job.
On Sunday morning, NFL managers, coaches and owners began to weigh in on the escalating feud, criticizing the president for calling out players political dissent.
Sep 24, 2017; Charlotte, NC, USA; New Orleans Saints players stand and sit during the national anthem at Bank of America Stadium.
Mandatory Credit: Bob Donnan-USA TODAY Sports

New England Patriots Chairman and CEO Robert Kraft, who has dined with Trump and who the president considers a friend, criticized Trump and defended players right to protest.
I am deeply disappointed by the tone of the comments made by the president on Friday, Kraft said on a statement posted on Twitter.
Kraft said he supports his players right to peacefully affect social change and raise awareness in a manner they feel is most impactful.
Jaguars owner Shad Khan linked arms with team players in solidarity at the game against the Ravens in Londons Wembley Stadium.
Khan donated $1 million to the Trump inauguration fund.
And Robert McNair, chairman of the Houston Texans team, said that Trumps comments were divisive and counterproductive to what our country needs right now.
McNair also donated $1 million to Trump.
Slideshow (7 Images)

NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said Trumps comments in Alabama revealed an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL and its players.
As commissioner, Goodell reports to NFL owners, some of whom have supported Trump.
New York Jets owner Woody Johnson, a major Trump presidential campaign donor, was confirmed by the Senate last month as Trumps pick to serve as U.S. ambassador to Britain.
The union representing professional football players also rejected Trumps comments, saying it would defend their right to freedom of expression.
In Chicago, Trumps feud was the main topic of conversation at the South Loop Club sports bar.
This is a first amendment issue and the president is supposed to uphold that right, said Sam Cunningham, 55, who was watching the game with his wife.
He should know better than anyone that to fire someone because of their opinion is not right.
National Basketball Association players also struck back against comments by the president on Saturday after Trump clashed with one of the biggest stars in the NBA, Stephen Curry.
Then on Saturday evening, Oakland As rookie Bruce Maxwell became the first Major League Baseball player to kneel for the national anthem in protest.
In a Twitter message on Saturday, the president rescinded a White House invitation to Stephen Curry, who had said he would vote against the planned visit by the NBA champion Golden State Warriors.
Curry told a news conference in Oakland, California: Its beneath the leader of a country to go that route.
Singer Stevie Wonder also appeared to evoke protests by Kaepernick and other athletes when he put one knee to the stage during a concert at the Global Citizen Festival in New York City on Saturday.
Sep 9, 2017; Oakland, CA, USA; Oakland Athletics catcher Bruce Maxwell (13) hits a one-run double against the Houston Astros in the sixth inning at Oakland Coliseum.
Mandatory Credit: John Hefti-USA TODAY Sports

(Reuters) - Oakland Athletics catcher Bruce Maxwell joined the list of athlete protesters on Saturday when he became the first MajorLeague Baseball player to kneel during the national anthem.
Maxwell placed his hand over his heart and faced the flag as the anthem played prior to his teams game against the Texas Rangers.
The Athletics issued a statement on Twitter that read: The Oakland As pride ourselves on being inclusive.
We respect and support all of our players constitutional rights and freedom of expression.
Entering Saturday the 26-year-old Maxwell has played in 71 games this season, batting .244 with three homers and 21 RBI.
BERLIN (Reuters) - Olympic champion Eliud Kipchoge staved off a surprise challenge from Ethiopian debutant Guye Adola to win an enthralling Berlin marathon on Sunday, but missed out on his bid to set a new world record.
Prior to the race, Kipchoge, fellow Kenyan Wilson Kipsang and Ethiopias Kenenisa Bekele had all set their sights on breaking Dennis Kimettos leading marathon mark of two hours, two minutes and 57 seconds along the flat, inner-city course.
Instead, Kipchoge ended up becoming embroiled in a classic tussle with the 26-year-old Adola, making his marathon debut, and needed until the 41st kilometer of the damp course to shake off his last surviving rival and cross the line in 2:03:32.
Adola finished 14 seconds adrift of the winner, with his Ethiopian compatriot Mosinet Geremew finishing third in 2:06:09.
Kipchoges victory was his second in Berlin and Gladys Cherono helped recreate the roll of honor from 2015, with the Kenyan winning the womens race in 2:20:23 to also record a second win in the event.
I am happy to have run this race.
The conditions were not friendly because of the rain, Kipchoge told reporters.
Luckily there was not strong wind.
I didnt expect Adolo but I am happy for him.
This is sport.
Athletics - Berlin Marathon - Berlin, Germany - September 24, 2017 Kenya's Eliud Kipchoge wins the race REUTERS/Michael Dalder

The star-studded trio made their intentions clear from the start, running at a blistering early pace that was well inside the time Kenyas Kimetto set in the same race three years ago.
The rainy conditions soon took their toll, however, and the elite men had drifted outside world record pace by the 12km mark.
Slideshow (3 Images)

Reaching halfway in 61:29, Bekele was the first of the big names to fall back, his bid to become the first man to hold the 5,000m, 10,000m and marathon world records dashed in the spray kicked up from Kipsang and Kipchoge as they sped away.
Former world record holder Kipsang was the next to run out of steam and walked off the course shortly after the 30km mark, setting the stage for a stunning duel between Kipchoge and Adola.
Adola was determined to upstage the favorite and attempted an audacious bid to break clear after 37km but Kipchoge kept his cool and caught back up with the Ethiopian four minutes later.
A revived Kipchoge then surged clear of Adola as they approached the iconic Brandenburg Gate, leaving the rookie with the consolation of setting the fastest ever debut time on a record-eligible course.
Cherono was unchallenged en route to her second win in the German capital but was a minute slower than two years ago.
Ruti Aga of Ethiopia was second, 19 seconds behind, and Kenyas Valary Aiyabei was third.
Peter Sagan of Slovakia is seen in the finish area after winning Men Elite Road Race at the UCI 2017 Road World Championship, in Bergen, Norway.
NTB SCANPIX/Cornelius Poppe via REUTERS

BERGEN, Norway (Reuters) - Peter Sagan stayed quiet all day before timing his effort to perfection in the final sprint to become the first rider to claim three road race world championship titles in a row on Sunday.
The Slovakian surged ahead with less than 50 meters left and pipped local favorite Alexander Kristoff to the line.
Australian Michael Matthews took third place.
It was not easy.
It came down to a sprint, that was unbelievable, said Sagan, who joined Italian Alfredo Binda, Belgians Rik van Steenbergen and Eddy Merckx, and Spains Oscar Freire in an elite club of triple world champions.
Im sorry (for the Norwegian fans) but Im happy to be world champion again.
I was just not fast enough to keep Peter behind me, I did my maximum but I must be happy with the result.
Its not easy to beat him, said Kristoff.
Matthews regretted that he had attacked on the last climb.
If I could take something back I would not attack so many times in the final climb, I lost energy, he said.
It seemed that Frances Julian Alaphilippe and Italian Gianni Moscon would fight it out for gold when both jumped away from the leading group 11km from the line on the ascent to Salmon Hill, a 1.4-km effort at an average gradient of 6.4 percent.
But they were eventually reined in and most of the top sprinters contested the win in front of huge, flag-waving crowds in the port city of Bergen.
Cycling - UCI Road World Championships - Men Elite Road Race - Bergen, Norway - September 24, 2017 - Gold medalist Peter Sagan (C) of Slovakia, silver medalist Alexander Kristoff (L) of Norway and bronze medalist Michael Matthews of Australia react on the podium.
NTB SCANPIX/Cornelius Poppe via REUTERS

Sagan, who was kicked out of the Tour de France this year for sending Mark Cavendish crashing in a sprint, was clearly the strongest as he added to his titles in Doha and Richmond, Virginia.
Belgium had no pure sprinters and they tried to blow up the race to avoid a mass finish.
Tim Wellens broke away with 70 km left and was followed by seven riders -- Spains David De La Cruz, Dutch Lars Boom, Italian Alessandro De Marchi, Colombian Jarlinson Pantano, Austrian Maro Haller, Australian Jack Haig and Norways Odd Christian Eiking.
Slideshow (3 Images)

They built up a maximum gap of 45 seconds as France tried to take control at the front of the peloton.
The break was ended 25 km from the finish after the peloton was split in the penultimate passage up to Salmon Hill.
In the final ascent, Alaphilippe burst away from the leading pack and only Moscon could follow as they opened up a 10-second gap.
France were looking for a first senior road race world champion since Laurent Brochard prevailed in 1997.
They came up just short, though.
The Frenchman contested the sprint but ended up 10th.
We did everything perfectly, except that we did not win, said France coach Cyrille Guimard, who led Lucien van Impe, Bernard Hinault, Greg LeMond and Laurent Fignon to Tour de France titles in the 1970s and 1980s.
Caroline Wozniacki of Denmark holds the winning plate during an awarding ceremony after winning the final match against Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova of Russia at Pan Pacific Open Women's tennis tournament in Tokyo, Japan, in this photo taken by Kyodo September 24, 2017.
Mandatory credit Kyodo/via REUTERS

TOKYO (Reuters) - Caroline Wozniacki ended her string of final failures by beating Russias Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova 6-0 7-5 in Tokyo on Sunday to win her second straight Pan Pacific Open title.
The former world number one, who has now won the event three times, was contesting her seventh final of the season after losing the previous six.
The 27-year-old Dane, seeded third, burst out of the gate behind a strong service game with two aces in a 21-minute first-set rout, looking fresh after her straight-sets triumph over world number one Garbine Muguruza the previous day.
By contrast, Pavlyuchenkovas grueling three-set semi-final win over Angelique Kerber appeared to have taken its toll and she struggled with accuracy, registering three double faults in the set.
After being swept aside in the opener, Pavlyuchenkova was far more competitive in the second and held her serve throughout until Wozniacki converted her third match point to break once more and seal victory in the 12th game of the set.
It was my seventh final of the year and obviously after a while it gets harder and harder to get that last one, Wozniacki said in a courtside interview at the Ariake Coliseum, which will host the tennis events at the 2020 Olympics.
But I went out there and I just stayed focused and stayed aggressive, especially in the beginning and then it was going my way, added Wozniacki, now ranked sixth in the world.
Overall, Wozniacki sent down six aces and failed to register a double fault or offer up a single break point, while her unseeded opponent coughed up five double faults without managing an ace.
Wozniackis 26th career title also ensured that the Dane maintained her streak of winning at least one WTA tournament every year since 2008 as she became the fourth player to have captured the Pan Pacific Open title three or more times.
The 26-year-old Pavlyuchenkova had been seeking her third title of the year and the 11th of her career.
MADRID (Reuters) - Defending champion Marc Marquez won the Aragon MotoGP on Sunday to take a 16-point lead in the world championship standings.
It was an all Spanish podium, as Honda team mate Dani Pedrosa was second and Jorge Lorenzo third for Ducati.
Italian Valentino Rossi, making a remarkable comeback barely three weeks after suffering a broken leg, finished fifth on his Yamaha after lying second earlier on.
Team mate Maverick Vinales of Spain, who started on pole, was fourth and compatriot Aleix Espargaro of Aprilia sixth.
Briton Cal Crutchlow was in contention for a top-six place but crashed and had to retire on lap 17.
Marquez started the race in fifth position after crashing in qualifying and had a slow start but quickly gained on his rivals, taking the lead from Lorenzo in the 16th lap and charging to his fifth title of the season.
It was a difficult race.
At the beginning I didnt have the feeling.
I tried to come back with the feeling but even in the last part of the race I didnt feel great.
I struggled more than other years here.
But its great, Marquez said.
Lorenzo came close to claiming his first win of the season but faded as the race entered the final stages.
Its a pity to lose the victory by not so much.
In the last 10 laps we needed more grip in the rear.
With the medium of Dani and the hard of Marc I couldnt follow them.
Anyway, Im happy with this 3rd position, Lorenzo told reporters.
By winning with four rounds remaining Marquez was able to take a clear lead in the standings as Andrea Dovizioso, previously the joint leader, managed only seventh place.
Marquez, who also won in San Marino two weeks ago, now has 224 points, Dovizioso 208 and Vinales 196.
The next race is the Japan Grand Prix in Motegi on Oct. 15.
Tennis - Laver Cup - 2nd Day - Prague, Czech Republic - September 23, 2017 - Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer of team Europe in action against Jack Sock and Sam Querrey of team World.
REUTERS/David W Cerny

PRAGUE (Reuters) - Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal took care of business in their singles matches before teaming up in an eagerly anticipated doubles pairing to extend Europes lead over players from the rest of the world in the inaugural Laver Cup on Saturday.
The new team tennis event, kicking off in Prague and moving to the United States next year, was a first chance for the worlds top two players to play competitively side by side.
Putting aside a rivalry rekindled this season after Spaniard Nadal and Swiss Federer swept all four grand slams, the pair outlasted and outclassed Americans Sam Querrey and Jack Sock to win 6-4 1-6 1-0(10-5) in the weekends headline match.
The doubles victory put Team Europe up 9-3 going into the final day when the four matches are each worth three points.
We will always forever be rivals as long as we are active.
And after this we will be rivals again, said Federer, ranked number two in the world and holder of 19 career grand slam titles to top-ranked Nadals 16.
But this was something very special.
Knowing you can trust him in the big moments, seeing his decision-making, seeing his thought process, it was very interesting.
It was definitely a different day to other days in my life, he added.
The Laver Cup, named after Australian tennis hero Rod Laver, is attempting to add new excitement to the sport in an already crowded calendar and was the brainchild of Federer and his sports management company Team8.
The Europeans are the clear favorites with five of the worlds top seven players and have won five of the six singles matches in the first two days.
In Saturdays first match, Federer cruised through 6-4 6-2 against world number 16 Querrey.
Tennis - Laver Cup - 2nd Day - Prague, Czech Republic - September 23, 2017 - Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer of team Europe react during the match.
REUTERS/David W Cerny

Nadal then glided through his first set before the hard-hitting Sock fought back to force a third set, which under the events rules is a rapid-fire, 10-point tiebreak.
Sock, who had teamed up with Australian Nick Kyrgios on Friday to take down Nadal and Czech Tomas Berdych to get Team Worlds only point on the opening day, again had to claw his way out of a hole.
But Nadal kept his nerve and ended the match with a winner at the net on the sleek, black hardcourt at O2 Arena to win 6-3 3-6 1-0(11-9).
Slideshow (8 Images)

In the evening session, Kyrgios defeated Berdych, taking late control to win 4-6 7-6(4) 1-0(10-6).
Nadal and Federer capped the evening with a thrilling win over Querrey and Sock, even after an early miscue almost caused Nadal to hit his partner as they both went for an overhead smash.
We played with too much energy, so went for everything, Nadal said of the near-miss.
After Federer served to take the first set, the American pair flew through the second 6-1 with some big serves.
Two crushing winners at the net by Nadal gave him and Federer the momentum to take them easily through the tiebreak.
Despite questions over competitiveness most matches have been tight and players have shown their approval.
The Team World bench has stood out with players joking around, choreographing their celebrations after points and leading the crowd in the Mexican Wave.
TORONTO (Reuters) - U.S. first lady Melania Trump, on her first solo international trip on Saturday, to Toronto, met with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and invited Britains Prince Harry to visit the White House.
Trump, 47, who is leading the U.S. delegation attending the opening ceremony of the Invictus Games for wounded soldiers in Canadas biggest city, also wished the U.S. team luck in a brief speech.
On behalf of my husband and our entire country, I want to thank you and your families for all you have sacrificed to keep us safe, Trump said at a reception for the U.S. team.
I also want to wish you good luck but I know you wont need it, she added.
Take that fighting spirit that I know you have and bring home the gold.
Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko (first row, L) and his wife Maryna Poroshenko, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau (first row, R) and his wife Sophie-Gregoire Trudeau, U.S. first lady Melania Trump (second row, L) and Britain's Prince Harry (second row, second from L), Governor General of Canada David Johnston (second row, second from R) and his wife Sharon Johnston watch the opening ceremony for the Invictus Games in Toronto, Canada, September 23, 2017.
REUTERS/Mark Blinch

Harry, 33, who is fifth in line to the British throne, set up the Invictus Games three years ago.
More than 550 injured and wounded servicemen and women from 17 allied nations are taking part in 12 adaptive sports in the games, which end on Sept. 30.
The meeting between Trump and the British prince lasted about 20 minutes, according to Trumps spokeswoman Stephanie Grisham.
Slideshow (20 Images)

They discussed the games, their families and ribbed each other about which team would come out ahead, Grisham said.
Trump also met with Trudeau, his wife, Sophie Gregoire Trudeau, and two of their three children.
Trump, Harry and Trudeau will attend the opening ceremony of the games on Saturday evening.
Gold medallist Turkey's Asli Cakir Alptekin smiles during the women's 1500m victory ceremony at the London 2012 Olympic Games at the Olympic Stadium August 11, 2012.
REUTERS/Eddie Keogh

ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Asli Cakir Alptekin, who won Olympic gold at London 2012 before being stripped of the title, has been banned for life by the Turkish Athletics Federation for a third doping offense, state-run Anadolu news agency have reported.
Alptekin won the 1500 meters title in London, a race where six of the first nine finishers have served drugs bans before or since, leading some to refer to it as the dirtiest race in history.
The 32-year-old was stripped of her 2012 Olympic and European titles in 2015 and suspended for eight years by the Turkish Athletics Federation.
She returned to the track this year, however, after the ban was halved and its start date backdated to 2013.
She finished 11th in the European Champion Clubs Cup Cross Country event in Portugal in February.
Asli Cakir, who wrote history by winning a gold medal in the 2012 London Olympics, has received her third punishment for doping, Anadolu said on Friday.
We will never ever give ground to those who become involved in doping.
Everyone should know this, Turkish Athletics Federation Chairman Fatih Cintimar told Anadolu.
The IAAF, athletics governing body, have not responded to a Reuters request to confirm the suspension.
FILE PHOTO - Former NFL player Aaron Hernandez looks at the gallery during the murder trial at the Bristol County Superior Court in Fall River, Massachusetts, March 18, 2015.
REUTERS/Dominick Reuter/File Photo

BOSTON (Reuters) - The National Football League on Friday vowed to vigorously fight a lawsuit filed on behalf of former New England Patriots star Aaron Hernandezs family that claimed his severe chronic traumatic encephalopathy led to his suicide.
Hernandez, 27, hung himself in April in a Massachusetts jail where he was serving a life sentence for the 2013 murder of an acquaintance.
His death stunned his friends and fans, coming just five days after he was acquitted of a separate 2012 double homicide.
The lawyer who secured his that acquittal, Jose Baez, on Thursday sued the league on behalf of Hernandezs 4-year-old daughter and fiancee, Shayanna Jenkins, saying a severe case of the brain disease CTE that Hernandez developed as a player contributed to his death.
The suit seeks $20 million.
Researchers on CTE at Boston University diagnosed the brain condition after Hernandezs death based on an autopsy.
CTE, which currently can be diagnosed only in a dead persons brain tissue, is linked to repeated head trauma and can lead to aggression and dementia.
It has been found in athletes including Hall of Fame linebacker Junior Seau and Pro Bowl safety Dave Duerson, both of whom committed suicide.
We intend to contest the claim vigorously, NFL spokesman Joe Lockhart told reporters on a conference call.
Any attempt here to paint Aaron Hernandez as a victim, we believe is misguided.
His personal story is complex and doesnt lend itself to simple answers.
Hernandezs two murder trials painted a picture of a young man who witnesses said regularly used illegal drugs and frequently worried about being challenged and disrespected by strangers.
He was found guilty in 2015 of murdering acquaintance Odin Lloyd in an industrial park near his home.
Earlier this year he was found not guilty of fatally shooting two men outside a Boston nightclub in 2012.
The prior conviction on Lloyds killing was vacated by a judge following Hernandezs death due to a quirk in Massachusetts law that allows such a move if a defendant has not exhausted all possible avenues of appeal.
Prosecutors have challenged that judges decision.
Lockhart said the league changed more than 50 rules intended to reduce the risk of CTE in football.
Those include more sideline tests of players and banning the most dangerous head-to-head hits.
Hernandez had a $41 million contract with the Patriots when he was arrested in June 2013 and charged with Lloyds murder.
NFL players knelt for the national anthem in droves after days of criticism from President Donald Trump on Sunday, Sept. 24.
The NFL protest began Sunday with players from the Baltimore Ravens and the Jacksonville Jaguars, who were playing in London, kneeling as the national anthem played before kick off.
Before the games Sunday, Trump continued to criticize the NFL on Twitter, calling for fans to boycott the league if players protest and saying "many stay away because they love our country.
League should back U.S."

Take a look at how players and personnel stood, sat or knelt during the national anthem.
Supporters of former quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who refused to stand for the national anthem to protest police brutality against blacks, showed their solidarity with him.
Ray Villeda reports.
Oakland Athletics catcher Bruce Maxwell kneels during the National Anthem before the start of a baseball game against the Texas Rangers Saturday, Sept. 23, 2017, in Oakland, California.
Oakland Athletics' catcher Bruce Maxwell on Saturday took a knee during the playing of the national anthem, marking the first time a Major League Baseball player has performed such an act.
Footage captured before Oakland's contest against the Texas Rangers featured Maxwell, the son of an Army officer, drop to one knee and hold his hat against his heart while teammate Mark Canha lowered his hand on Maxwell's shoulder.
Maxwell's decision comes on the heels of President Donald Trump suggesting that NFL owners should fire any player who chooses to kneel for the national anthem.
Players across the NFL have been taking a knee, sitting or hoisting their fists into the air during the anthem ever since former San Francisco 49ers' quarterback Colin Kaepernick refused to stand for the anthem last fall in protest of racial injustice and unfair policing.
"The only platform right now that seems to be getting people's attention is athletes kneeling during the anthem, so I'm doing my part in doing that in baseball," Maxwell said after the game.
Bob Melvin, the manager of the A's, said Maxwell addressed the team before Saturday's contest and let them know about his plans to drop to one knee.
Melvin said some members of the squad had questions but added that Maxwell handled the situation "really well" and the team felt "comfortable" when all was said and done.
Khris Davis, a left fielder for the A's, applauded Maxwell for bravely following through.
"I thought it was very courageous," Davis said.
"I respect his decision."
Maxwell, who admitted that taking a knee for the national anthem was "one of the hardest things I've ever had to do," is not worried about the expected backlash coming his way.
"The end of the matter is, when people voice their opinions and it ruffles some feathers a little bit, then negativity always comes through, but at the same time, that's what's needed to make a change," he said.
Maxwell was born in Wiesbaden, Germany, while his father was stationed there in the Army.
He later moved to Alabama, where he attended high school and college.
Maxwell's agent, Matt Sosnick, told The Associated Press that "the Maxwells' love and appreciation for our country is indisputable."
"Bruce has made it clear that he is taking a stand about what he perceives as racial injustices in this country, and his personal disappointment with President Trump's response to a number of professional athletes' totally peaceful, non-violent protests.
"Bruce has shared with both me and his teammates that his feelings have nothing to do with a lack of patriotism or a hatred of any man, but rather everything to do with equality for men, women and children regardless of race or religion."
Maxwell took to Twitter earlier Saturday and wrote, "Don't be surprised if you start seeing athletes kneeling in other sports now!!
Comments like that coming from our president.
"Inequality is being displayed bigger than ever right now as our president shows that freeedom (sic) of protest and speech is not allowed..," Maxwell wrote in another tweet.
Minutes before Maxwell put his plan into action, the A's issued a statement of backing.
"The Oakland A's pride ourselves on being inclusive," the statement read.
"We respect and support all of our players' constitutional rights and freedom of expression."
Major League Baseball also issued a statement, saying it has "a longstanding tradition of honoring our nation prior to the start of our games" but that "we also respect that each of our players is an individual with his own background, perspectives and opinions."
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
President Donald Trump held a rally in Huntsville, Alabama, Friday night to endorse Sen. Luther Strange.
Here are some key moments from his speech.
Colin Kaepernick's mother has nothing but pride for her son's form of protest, despite President Donald Trump's critique of it.
At a rally in Alabama Friday night Trump said NFL owners should fire players who kneel, as Kaepernick did throughout the 2016 season, during the anthem and fans should consider walking out in protest

"Get that son of a b---- off the field right now.
He's fired!
He's fired!"
Trump said.
Replying to a tweet about a news article about Trump's comments, Kaepernick's mother Teresa Kaepernick said: "Guess that makes me a proud b----!"
Robber Injured During Hold Up Suing Good Samaritan

An armed robber injured when a Good Samaritan stepped in to stop his hold-up of a California Starbucks is now planning to sue over the injuries he sustained.
KSEE's Connie Tran reports.
(Published Friday, Sept. 22, 2017)

She was not the only one who spoke out against Trump.
NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell, along with the NFL players' union, said Trump's comments are "divisive."
Many of the NFL players also joined in criticizing Trump.
Seattle Seahawks cornerback Richard Sherman tweeted: "The behavior of the President is unacceptable and needs to be addressed.
If you do not Condemn this divisive Rhetoric you are Condoning it!!"
Kaepernick's sideline protests became a national topic last year when said that he will not stand up "to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color."
On his first address to the United Nation's General Assembly, President Donald Trump called for more countries to join together against North Korea and Iran, and for Venezuela to restore "democracy and political freedoms."
(Published Tuesday, Sept. 19, 2017)

France has become the first nation participating in the 2018 Olympic Games in Pyeongchang, South Korea, to express doubts about going, given the ongoing tensions with North Korea, Reuters reported.
If the nuclear crisis deepens and "our security cannot be assured, the French Olympics team will stay at home," French Sports Minister Laura Flessel said Thursday on French radio.
But "we're not there yet," she added.
The games are being held in February just 50 miles from the heavily armed demilitarized zone between North and South Korea, currently trading threats  also involving the United States  after the north's recent nuclear and missile tests.
"Safety and security is one of the most important aspects of Games preparations," a spokesman for the organizing committee told Reuters in a statement.
Here's the Olympic Torch Relay Route to Pyeongchang
The question of the day at New York Giants practice Saturday remained: Will Odell Beckham, Jr. play Monday night against the Detroit Lions?
The three-time Pro Bowl wide receiver is hobbled by a high ankle sprain suffered in the second preseason game against the Cleveland Browns.
He missed last Sunday's 19-3 loss to the Dallas Cowboys and was questionable on the team's injury report Saturday.
His participation in the light practice session was once again limited, like it was all week.
Coach Ben McAdoo addressed the situation before Saturday's workout, but did not shed any light whether the star pass catcher would be able to play.
"We'll see how it goes," McAdoo said.
"We'll get in there and do a little bit of work (Saturday).
Then tomorrow, we'll go in and have our launch day.
We'll take a look at him tomorrow and see how it goes.
"It's a medical decision.
We're just seeing his level of confidence and where he is sticking his foot in the ground.
Communication is a two-way street.
It's visual and verbal."
McAdoo was asked if he would consider using Beckham if he wasn't 100 percent physically.
"That's tough to say," McAdoo said.
"The biggest thing is you don't want to put a player out there that is going to do any harm to himself or injure himself any more than he is.
It is an injury.
It's a tough injury.
He's fighting through it and doing everything he can to get back, but we're going to be smart with him.
We're going to do what's best for the player."
Earlier in the week, Beckham called his injury a "six-to-eight week thing."
The injury took place four weeks ago.
"As bad as I wanted to play (last Sunday night in Dallas), it just wasn't there," Beckham said after practice Thursday.
"As much as I was trying my hardest to get out there, it just wasn't enough time.
If it's hurting, the doctors are going to hold you.
I want to play that bad.
I'm working my best to get to 100 (percent), so once I do get there, there won't be any more problems.
At the moment, we just don't know.
We're just kind of day to day.
It's getting better, so we're going in the right direction."
When asked Thursday if he could play Monday night, Beckham replied, "I can't tell you that right now, but I'm trying my hardest, that's for sure.
I'm looking forward to it.
Prime-time game on Monday night, you want to be in it."
Beckham also said he doesn't want to reinjure the ankle and have a setback.
"You can set yourself back for another five to six weeks," Beckham said.
"I don't have that luxury right now.
So it's a matter of getting to a point where you know you're confident, where you can go and you don't have to worry about it.
Until that moment comes, we're being smart with it and staying on top of it."
Starting cornerback Janoris Jenkins, who practiced Saturday after dealing with hand and ankle injuries, knows how important Beckham is to the Giants' fortunes.
"I think it gives them (the Lions) a sign of relief," Jenkins said.
"At the end of the day, it's about being healthy when you're on the field.
Until then, we're just going to play great defense.
Hopefully the offense will come along with or without Odell.
We're going to control what we can control."
Defensive end Jason Pierre-Paul agreed that the Giants are a different team with Beckham.
"Odell is a special person," Pierre-Paul said.
"He's the best wide receiver in the league.
At the same time, we have to do what we have to do if he can't go.
If Odell can't go, he can't go.
Only Odell knows if he can go.
I feel like anybody with a special talent like that lifts up the whole team.
You can't look towards one guy to lift up a team.
We can't depend on one guy, otherwise you'll never find yourself in the same place.
Odell is a special kind of player and hopefully he is able to go, but if he's not, the next guy has to step up.
That's basically what it is."
Meanwhile, starting middle linebacker B.J.
Goodson didn't practice.
The second-year pro, who made 18 tackles in the loss to Dallas, left Friday's practice with a lower leg injury.
Goodson is questionable along with Beckham and reserve offensive lineman D.J.
Fluker (shin).
The listing of the Goodson injury seemed to come out of nowhere Saturday morning.
"It's something that has been bothering him over the last couple of days," McAdoo said.
"The injury happened (Friday).
It got sore as practice went on, so we pulled him out."
Linebacker Keenan Robinson was ruled out of Monday's game as he goes through the concussion protocol.
Starting right tackle Bobby Hart's sprained ankle improved enough to have Hart taken off the official NFL injury report.
Hart practiced fully Saturday, as did defensive tackle Jay Bromley (knee), cornerback Jenkins (hand, ankle) and wide receiver Tavarres King (ankle).
McAdoo believes his team will be ready for its home opener Monday night.
"We had a great week of practice," the second-year head coach said.
"(Friday) was a tremendous day.
Our tempo was good and the energy was good.
We had some physicality and we had some things to clean up like we always do after practice."
A banner was quickly confiscated during Wednesday night's Red Sox game against the Oakland A's

A banner was quickly confiscated during Wednesday night's Red Sox game against the Oakland A's.
Four fans seated above the Green Monster dropped down a sign during the fourth inning.
The black sign with white letters read, "Racism is as American as baseball."
Security reeled the banner back within minutes and escorted the fans from their seats, according to CSNNE.
Red Sox officials confirmed the incident through a statement:

"During the fourth inning of tonights game, four fans unfurled a banner over the left field wall in violation of the clubs policy prohibiting signs of any kind to be hung or affixed to the ballpark.
The individuals involved were escorted out of Fenway Park," said Zineb Curran, Senior Director of Corporate Communications.
A short time later, a group called Boston Antifa claimed via Twitter to be responsible for the stunt.
Fans at Wednesday night's game were quick to react to the stunt.
"Baseball represents America and racism does not.
It's not OK," said one fan.
"I think it is going to end up being another one of those things that makes Boston look bad," said another man.
"I don't really know what they meant by it.
I guess it is up for interpretation."
This is the second time this year a controversial banner has been unfurled over the Green Monster, according to CSNNE.
In June, a banner with a political message regarding the Middle East was also removed.
The Red Sox have instituted a no-tolerance policy after Orioles outfielder Adam Jones, who is black, said he heard racist remarks during a game earlier this season.
More videos (1 of 9)

Link to this video

LA Officially Named as Host of 2028 Olympics

UP NEXT

The International Olympic Committee has officially named Los Angeles the host city for the 2028 Olympic Games.
More than a dozen Baltimore Ravens and Jacksonville Jaguars players knelt during the U.S. national anthem before Sunday's game at Wembley Stadium.
It is believed to be in protest of President Donald Trump's comments this week on protests during the anthem.
The Ravens, whose players had never protested during the anthem, had 10 players take a knee: linebackers Terrell Suggs, C.J.
Mosley,?
Za'Darius Smith,?
Tim Williams and Tyus Bowser, wide receiver Mike Wallace, defensive lineman Carl Davis, safety Tony Jefferson, and defensive backs Anthony Levine and Lardarius Webb.
Many of the Jaguars held hands along the sideline, and about 10 took a knee, including cornerbacks Jalen Ramsey and A.J.
Bouye, defensive ends Calais Campbell and Yannick Ngakoue, defensive tackle Malik Jackson, safety Tashaun Gipson, and running back Leonard Fournette.
Ravens coach John Harbaugh, Jaguars coach Doug Marrone and Jaguars owner Shad Khan stood with the players during the anthem.
"We recognize our players' influence," Ravens owner Steve Bisciotti said via statement.
"We respect their demonstration and support them 100 percent.
All voices need to be heard.
That's democracy in its highest form."
Khan issued a statement afterward that said, "It was a privilege to stand on the sidelines with the Jacksonville Jaguars today for the playing of the U.S. national anthem at Wembley Stadium.
"I met with our team captains prior to the game to express my support for them, all NFL players and the league following the divisive and contentious remarks made by President Trump, and was honored to be arm in arm with them, their teammates and our coaches during our anthem.
"Our team and the National Football League reflects our nation, with diversity coming in many forms -- race, faith, our views and our goals.
We have a lot of work to do, and we can do it, but the comments by the President make it harder.
That's why it was important for us, and personally for me, to show the world that even if we may differ at times, we can and should be united in the effort to become better as people and a nation."
The kneeling players stood for the singing of the U.K. national anthem.
Trump on Friday night criticized NFL players who lodge protests during the national anthem.
Speaking at a political rally in Huntsville, Alabama, Trump said: "Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now.
He's fired!
He's fired!"
The Stanley Cup champion Pittsburgh Penguins will visit the White House this year, the team said in a statement on Sunday.
The Penguins said they "respect the institution of the Office of the President."
"Any agreement or disagreement with a president's politics, policies or agenda can be expressed in other ways," the statement read.
"However, we very much respect the rights of other individuals and groups to express themselves as they see fit."
On Saturday, Donald Trump tweeted that the 2017 NBA champion Golden State Warriors were not welcome to celebrate at the White House because star player "Stephen Curry is hesitating."
The Super Bowl champion New England Patriots were the first pro team to visit the White House in the Trump administration.
The Penguins won the Stanley Cup in 2017, their third in the past decade.
They have previously visited the White House during the presidencies of George H.W.
Bush and Barack Obama.
OAKLAND, Calif. --?
Stephen Curry emerged from the Golden State Warriors training room with a huge grin.
He'd had all morning to decide how to respond to being called out in a tweet by President Donald Trump and disinvited to celebrate the Warriors' NBA title at the White House.
And as he walked over to address a crowd of about two dozen sports reporters who were all of a sudden swimming in the same strange political pond, Curry was all smiles.
"Anyone got any basketball questions?"
Curry joked to break the ice.
It was funny for a moment, but as the words left his mouth, both Curry and the assembled crowd seemed to realize that all of this was probably intertwined forever now.
"The last time athletes have been this outspoken was with Muhammad Ali and Bill Russell," head coach Steve Kerr told ESPN.
"That's the last time probably we've seen this kind of division in the country and with civil rights issues.
"Now all of a sudden, our country is in a really weird place, and everything is blending together."
Late-night comics are debating health care policy with senators.
LeBron James is tweeting at the president, "U bum."
NFL owners are issuing statements decrying the president's tweets on the peaceful protest their players have engaged in to call attention to racism and police brutality.
The NFL Players Association is making videos urging its players to stand together on Sunday to protest the president's condemnations, with imagery from civil rights era protest marches.
It's all intertwined now.
The Warriors have been thinking on, and answering questions about, celebrating at the White House since June.
Everyone in the organization and the league office recognized the responsibility of the decision.
This would serve as a precedent for future NBA champions and a litmus test for champions in other sports.
There was a statement to make in attending a White House celebration.
And there was a statement to make in not attending a White House celebration.
The very least the Warriors and NBA could do was give it thoughtful consideration, which had been ongoing for months and was set to conclude Saturday morning before the team's first practice.
Then, President Trump ended all debate by disinviting the team over Twitter and criticizing Curry's public comments at media day Friday.
It was a stunning end to what had been a long process among the team, the league, its players and several senior White House officials.
"Surreal," Curry said.
"Insane," Kerr said.
And yet, it's not as uncommon for basketball to enter the political arena as you might think.
Remember the players' furor over former Clippers owner Donald Sterling's racist comments?
The Miami Heat's team photo in hoodies to honor Trayvon Martin?
The NBA's commercials to call attention to gun violence?
The NBA and its players have long been the most willing of all the major sports leagues to engage in cultural and political debate.
Kerr, Spurs coach Gregg Popovich and Pistons coach Stan Van Gundy have all been publicly critical of the president since he took office.
James even campaigned in Ohio for Democratic challenger Hillary Clinton.
But this time, the president answered back.
He had no interest in hearing what the Warriors had to say.
Maybe the divide had already grown too large and the rhetoric too ugly.
"The idea of civil discourse with a guy who is tweeting and demeaning people and saying the things he's saying is sort of far-fetched," Kerr said.
"Can you picture us really having a civil discourse with him?"
That's hard to picture.
But instead of the well-reasoned, calm, decision-making process the Warriors, NBA and senior White House officials had worked for months to set up, there was suddenly no choice to attend or not attend, and no chance at civil discourse at all.
"It was an actual chance to talk to the president," Kerr said.
"After all, he works for us.
He's a public servant.
He may not be aware of that, but he is a public servant, right?
So maybe as NBA champions, as people in a prominent position, we could go in and say, 'This is what's bothering us, what can we do about this?'"
That was the case Kerr, general manager Bob Myers and owner Joe Lacob were going to make to the team Saturday morning.
Maybe there was a way to go to the White House and not have it turn into a photo opp.
Maybe there was a way to meet behind closed doors and discuss the issues, policies and rhetoric that so many in the organization found so noxious.
"There had been discussions between our camp and his camp all summer," Lacob told ESPN.
"He knew there would be a discussion and decision [Saturday].
And that was all usurped by a tweet.
I find that rather disconcerting."
Lacob said he was preparing for the team meeting when the president's tweet came across his screen.
"You don't get the opportunity to speak to the president and express your opinion very often," Lacob said.
"That does not mean that I support the president or his view or his policies, his rhetoric or tweets.
I'm probably very close to my players in their views.
"I'm Jewish, and I felt persecuted by what happened in Charlottesville.
I saw the footage of the neo-Nazis.
It would have been nice to have that discourse with the president, but that's not possible [now].
First of all, we would have only gone if we were able to speak our voice.
But we never got to have that discussion."
That's the real missed opportunity here.
That the discussion ended before it began.
That a chance at civil discourse, even if it was just among the Warriors players, coaches, owners and executives, never took place.
That the president didn't want to hear or even engage in what any of them had to say.
"It was a big opportunity as a team and an organization to talk about what the situation was," Curry said.
"It's kind of funny that tweet was sent before we could meet as a team."
It's highly unlikely the Warriors would have voted to attend the White House celebration.
Most of the team's players had already stated publicly they didn't want to go.
Draymond Green cited the president's refusal to condemn neo-Nazis and white supremacists after a woman was killed during protests in Charlottesville as the final straw.
Kerr mentioned the president's divisive statements Friday about NFL players who kneeled during the national anthem.
"How about the irony of, 'Free speech is fine if you're a neo-Nazi chanting hate slogans, but free speech is not allowed to kneel in protest?'"
Kerr said.
"No matter how many times a football player says, 'I honor our military, but I'm protesting police brutality and racial inequality,' it doesn't matter.
Nationalists are saying, 'You're disrespecting our flag.'
Well, you know what else is disrespectful to our flag?
Racism.
And one's way worse than the other."
One of the hallmarks of the Warriors organization is that it encourages debate, even with strong opinions on both sides.
"I believe it's not only OK, but it's required to have opinions," Lacob said.
"I've run a lot of companies, and for me, that's what works best.
I have my personal views, Steve Kerr has his views, Rick Welts has his views, Bob Myers has his views, the players have their views.
And we should all get in a room and discuss and decide.
"That's why you have Steph or KD speaking their minds.
Nobody tells them what to say or do.
I think it's the right way to run an organization.
I think we're better when we operate that way."
Sports have long served as America's town hall.
Lately, there has been a lot of talking at each other and not to each other.
It has gotten loud and emotional on both sides.
"I spent some time last year sort of blasting the president," Kerr said.
Then he took a step back Saturday and thought about the best way to have an impact.
"It was unanimous today," Kerr said.
"We stand for the things we think our country should stand for -- inclusiveness, equality, diversity, joy and love.
It sounds corny, but that's what we stand for."
Curry ended his news conference Saturday much as he had begun it.
He said he wanted to focus on ways the team could do something meaningful during its trip to Washington, D.C., in late February.
He said he'd continue to stand for what he believed in.
Then he smiled and said, "Oh, I had a good pick-and-roll today.
I made a basket."
Back to basketball, whatever reality that is now.
The Latest on the sports world reacting to President Donald Trump's remarks about pro football (all times Eastern):

1 p.m.

NFL players used the national anthem to show their defiance to President Donald Trump's criticism, with at least 100 players kneeling or sitting in protest and one team staying in the locker room.
Most teams in the early afternoon games locked arms in solidarity.
At least three team owners joined their players.
More than 100 players sat or knelt, the form of protest started last season by former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick.
Kaepernick is now a free agent, and supporters believe teams have avoided signing him because of his protest.
The Pittsburgh Steelers remained in the locker room as the national anthem played before their game with the Chicago Bears.
Coach Mike Tomlin stood by himself on the sideline.
How each team would observe the national anthem emerged as the center of attention on this NFL Sunday in the wake of Trump's critical remarks toward players who don't stand for the anthem.
Tomlin had said before the game that Pittsburgh's players would remain in the locker room and that "we're not going to let divisive times or divisive individuals affect our agenda."
Tomlin added that the Steelers made this choice "not to be disrespectful to the anthem but to remove ourselves from this circumstance.
People shouldn't have to choose."
12:40 p.m.

NFL commissioner Roger Goodell said in a tweet that the league will re-air a unity television advertisement Sunday night that it first ran during February's Super Bowl.
The one-minute spot called "Inside These Lines," will be shown during the Sunday night game between the Oakland Raiders and Washington Redskins.
Over images and video of NFL players embracing one another on the field, the narrator says "Inside these lines, we don't have to come from the same place to help each other reach the same destination."
Goodell said that President's Trump's remarks about the NFL demonstrated "an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL."
12:12 p.m.
The Pittsburgh Steelers have decided to stay in their locker room for the national anthem before their game against the Chicago Bears, coach Mike Tomlin has told CBS.
The move was apparently in reaction to President Donald Trump's suggestion that NFL owners fire players who kneel for the national anthem.
Several players from the Jaguars and Ravens decided to kneel in the first NFL game of the day in London.
Then Tomlin said his players would not be on the sideline at Soldier Field in Chicago for the anthem.
AP Sports Writer Jay Cohen reported from Chicago



12:13 p.m.

Former NFL Commissioner Paul Tagilabue called President Donald Trump's comments on NFL players "insulting and disgraceful."
Tagliabue, who was in Charlotte, North Carolina, as a guest of Panthers owner Jerry Richardson, spoke to the media before Carolina's game against the New Orleans Saints.
"For me to single out any particular group of players and call them SOB's, to me, that is insulting and disgraceful," Tagliabue said.
"So I think the players deserve credit for what they do.
And when it comes to speech they are entitled to speak.
And we are entitled to listen.
We are entitled to agree or disagree.
But we're not entitled to shut anybody's speech down.
Sometimes you don't like what you hear and that is true in life in lots of contexts, but you can't shut people down and be disgraceful when you are doing it."
Richardson is not making a statement on the Trump's remarks, per team spokesman Steven Drummond.
AP Sports Writer Steve Reed reported from Charlotte, North Carolina



11:45 a.m.

A handful of Miami Dolphins players are wearing black T-shirts supporting free agent quarterback Colin Kaepernick during pregame warm-ups.
The shirts have "#IMWITHKAP" written in bold white lettering on the front.
Kaepernick was the first athlete to refuse to stand during the national anthem as a protest.
This season, no team has signed him, and some supporters believe NFL owners are avoiding him because of the controversy.
Among the players sporting the shirts before their game against the New York Jets are wide receiver Kenny Stills, running back Jay Ajayi and offensive linemen Laremy Tunsil and Ja'Wuan James.
Stills, also a team captain, posted a photo on Twitter of himself wearing the shirt , along with the post: "In case you didn't know!"
AP Sports Writer Dennis Waszak reporting from East Rutherford, New Jersey



11:30 a.m.

Outside the Buffalo Bills' New Era Field, fans were tailgating as normal with no signs of protests or indications of support.
Last season, vendors here sold anti-Colin Kaepernick jerseys  including one with him pictured in the crosshairs of a target  before the San Francisco 49ers game at Orchard Park on Oct. 16.
Kaepernick was jeered once the game began.
Kaepernick was the first player to refuse to stand during the national anthem.
"If they do this as a whole team, I will want my money back as a season-ticket holder and I'll never come back to a game again," fan Mike Ragyna said when asked about the prospect of players protesting during the anthem.
"There's no reason they can't stand for the national anthem and get up on a soapbox afterward and do it then," Ragyna said.
AP Sports Writer John Wawrow reported from Orchard Park, New York



11:15 a.m.

Jacksonville Jaguars owner Shad Khan calls it a privilege to stand arm-in-arm with players during the national anthem in London.
Khan stood between tight end Marcedes Lewis and linebacker Telvin Smith at Wembley Stadium and then released a statement to express his support for players.
Coaches and other team personnel from both teams did the same before the game against the Ravens.
About two dozen players on both teams kneeled, something President Donald Trump has said owners should fire players for.
"It was a privilege to stand on the sidelines with the Jacksonville Jaguars today for the playing of the U.S. national anthem at Wembley Stadium," Khan said.
"I met with our team captains prior to the game to express my support for them, all NFL players and the league following the divisive and contentious remarks made by President Trump, and was honored to be arm in arm with them, their teammates and our coaches during our anthem."
11:02 a.m.

Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin is defending President Donald Trump's attacks on football players who kneel during the national anthem.
Speaking on ABC's "This Week" Sunday morning, Mnuchin says the National Football League enforces other types of rules and Trump thinks "owners should have a rule that players should have to stand in respect for the national anthem."
Mnuchin adds that "they can do free speech on their own time."
Trump suggested during a speech Friday night that NFL owners should fire players who kneel during the national anthem.
A handful of NFL players have refused to stand to protest several issues, including police brutality.
11:01 a.m.
The Pittsburgh Penguins say they've accepted an invitation from President Donald Trump to go to the White House after winning the Stanley Cup.
The Penguins released a statement Sunday saying they respect the office of the president and "the long tradition of championship teams visiting the White House."
The Penguins were honored by Barack Obama after winning the Stanley Cup in 2016 and previously by George H.W.
Bush in the early 1990s.
"Any agreement or disagreement with a president's politics, policies or agenda can be expressed in other ways.
However, we very much respect the rights of other individuals and groups to express themselves as they see fit."
Trump revoked the White House invitation to the NBA champion Golden State Warriors Saturday, after the team had said they might not accept.
Stephen Whyno reporting from Washington



10:55 a.m.

A White House adviser says the president lashed out at NFL players for kneeling during the national anthem because he stands with Americans who want the anthem respected.
Marc Short is director of legislative affairs.
He argues on NBC's "Meet the Press" that President Donald Trump believes NFL players have First Amendment rights, but that owners should have the right to fire them.
Trump seemed to disinvite the NBA champion Golden State Warriors from the White House because of star Stephen Curry's public opposition to him.
Asked why Trump is inflaming tensions, Short says the Warriors started it.
He says players "were the ones that first went out ... and began criticizing the president."
10:15 a.m.

Baltimore Ravens owner Steve Bisciotti says he "100 percent" supports his players' decision to kneel during the national anthem ahead of Sunday's game against the Jacksonville Jaguars at Wembley.
At least seven Ravens players and more than a dozen Jaguars players took a knee during the anthem while the rest of the players stood locked arm-in-arm in an apparent response to President Donald Trump, who said this week that NFL owners should fire those who disrespected the American flag.
But the Ravens issued a statement from Bisciotti minutes after kickoff, saying: "We recognize our players' influence.
We respect their demonstration and support them 100 percent.
All voices need to be heard.
That's democracy in its highest form."
Jaguars owner Shad Khan stood arm-in-arm with his players during the anthem.
9:30 a.m.

About two dozen players, including Baltimore Ravens linebacker Terrell Suggs and Jacksonville Jaguars running back Leonard Fournette, took a knee during the playing of the national anthem before the start of the teams' game at Wembley Stadium on Sunday.
Other players on one knee during the performance included Ravens linebacker C.J.
Mosley, wide receiver Mike Wallace and safety Lardarius Webb as well as Jaguars linebacker Dante Fowler, defensive tackle Calais Campbell, defensive end Yannick Ngakoue and cornerback Jalen Ramsey.
Players on both teams and Jaguars owner Shad Khan, who were not kneeling, remained locked arm-in-arm throughout the playing of the national anthem and "God Save The Queen," the national anthem of Britain.
No players were kneeling during the playing of the British national anthem.
President Donald Trump had a suggestion on Saturday for National Football League owners whose players decide to take a knee during the national anthem: fire them.
President Donald Trump's criticism of players who protest during the national anthem incited a mass increase in such activism Sunday, with more than 100 NFL players sitting or kneeling, others raising their fists and whole teams standing with locked arms to display unity.
One team, the Pittsburgh Steelers, stayed in the locker room during "The Star-Spangled Banner."
Last week across the entire NFL, only four players knelt or sat, and two stood with their fists raised.
In the nine early games Sunday, AP reporters counted 102 players kneeling or sitting, and at least three raising their fists.
The reactions reverberated across the Atlantic, where about two dozen players, including Baltimore Ravens linebacker Terrell Suggs and Jacksonville Jaguars running back Leonard Fournette, took a knee during the playing of the national anthem before the start of the teams' game at Wembley Stadium in London.
Other players on both teams and Jaguars owner Shad Khan remained locked arm-in-arm throughout the playing of the national anthem and "God Save The Queen."
No players were kneeling during the British anthem.
Former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick was the first athlete to refuse to stand during the national anthem as a protest to police treatment of minorities last year.
This season, no team has signed him, and some supporters believe NFL owners are avoiding him because of the controversy.
That protest movement ballooned Sunday following Trump's weekend rant that began with him calling for NFL protesters to be fired.
It continued Saturday with the president rescinding a White House invitation for the NBA champion Golden State Warriors, who had said they were considering not attending.
By Sunday, it was one of the main topics of conversation on social media and around the country.
In Charlotte, North Carolina, more than a dozen New Orleans Saints players sat during the anthem, including star running back Adrian Peterson.
In Buffalo, New York, more than half the Denver Broncos knelt during the anthem and a handful of Buffalo Bills sat or knelt.
In Minneapolis, Tampa Bay Buccaneers Mike Evans and DeSean Jackson knelt with the rest of the team locking arms during the "Star Spangled Banner."
The Minnesota Vikings also locked arms.
Although no Vikings were spotted taking a knee during the anthem, at least a dozen players sprinted into one end zone and took a knee with head bowed, before the crowd was asked to stand.
On Sunday, NFL owners continued issuing statements condemning the president's divisive words and players took part in displays of unity across the league.
The Pittsburgh Steelers decided to stay in their locker room for the national anthem before their game against the Chicago Bears.
Sports hasn't been immune from America's deep political rifts, but the president's delving into the NFL protests started by Kaepernick brought new attention.
After the Warriors White House invite was rescinded, the National Hockey League's reigning champion Pittsburgh Penguins announced they did accept a White House invitation from Trump.
In a statement released Sunday morning, the Penguins said they respect the office of the president and "the long tradition of championship team visiting the White House."
The Penguins were honored by Barack Obama after winning the Stanley Cup in 2016 and previously by George H.W.
Bush in the early 1990s.
Wading into thorny issues of race and politics, Trump's comments in a Friday night speech in Huntsville, Alabama, and a series of Saturday tweets drew sharp responses from some of the nation's top athletes, with LeBron James calling the president a "bum."
Hours later, Major League Baseball saw its first player take a knee during the national anthem.
"Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, you'd say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now.
He's fired,'" Trump said to loud applause Friday night at a rally in Huntsville, Alabama, comments he kept echoing over the next two days.
"If NFL fans refuse to go to games until players stop disrespecting our Flag & Country, you will see change take place fast.
Fire or suspend!"
the president said in a Sunday morning tweet.
Trump also mocked the league's crackdown on illegal hits, suggesting the league had softened because of its safety initiatives, which stem from an increased awareness of the devastating effects of repeated hits to the head.
The league and its players, often at odds, have been united in condemning the president's criticisms, with commissioner Roger Goodell saying Saturday that "divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL, our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities.
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin defended Trump's attacks Sunday, saying on ABC's "This Week" that the president thinks "owners should have a rule that players should have to stand in respect for the national anthem."
Mnuchin added that "they can do free speech on their own time."
New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft, who's been a strong supporter of the president, expressed "deep disappointment" with Trump on Sunday.
For more NFL coverage: http://www.pro32.ap.org and http://www.twitter.com/APNFL



AP Sports Writers Dennis Waszak Jr., Steve Reed and Stephen Whyno contributed.
Follow Arnie Melendrez Stapleton on Twitter: http://twitter.com/arniestapleton
The Latest on the third Sunday of the NFL regular season:

11:15 a.m.

Baltimore Ravens wide receiver Jeremy Maclin has been cleared to return in Sunday's game against the Jacksonville Jaguars at Wembley Stadium after being examined for a possible concussion.
Maclin underwent the standard concussion protocol after hitting his head on the ground during the second quarter, but the team announced after the halftime break that he had been cleared by doctors.
Maclin was hurt when Joe Flacco's pass came off his hands and was intercepted by A.J.
Bouye, and the wide receivers head then seemed to bounce on the turf as he fell down.
The Jaguars led 23-0 at halftime.
10:40 a.m.

Baltimore Ravens wide receiver Jeremy Maclin is in concussion protocol after hitting his head on the ground during Sunday's game against the Jacksonville Jaguars at Wembley Stadium.
Joe Flacco's pass to Maclin was intercepted by A.J.
Bouye during the second quarter after it came off the wide receiver's hands.
Maclin's head then seemed to bounce on the turf as he fell down.
10:35 a.m.

Baltimore Ravens defensive end Brent Urban has a foot sprain and is questionable to return in Sunday's game against the Jacksonville Jaguars at Wembley Stadium.
Urban came off the field limping after Jaguars running back Leonard Fournette picked up a first down on 4th-and-1 toward the end of the first quarter.
He was taken to the locker room for further examination



For more NFL coverage: http://www.pro32.ap.org and http://www.twitter.com/APNFL
Bruce Maxwell of the Oakland Athletics became the first major league baseball player to kneel during the national anthem Saturday, pulling the sport into a polarizing protest movement that has been criticized harshly by President Donald Trump.
Before a home game against the Texas Rangers, Maxwell dropped to a knee just outside Oakland's dugout, adopting a protest started by former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick in response to police treatment of blacks.
The 26-year-old rookie catcher pressed his right hand against his heart, and teammates stood in a line next to him.
Teammate Mark Canha, who is white, put his right hand on one of Maxwell's shoulders, and the two hugged after the anthem finished.
"Everybody watches sports and so everybody loves sports, so I felt this was the right thing for me to do personally," Maxwell said.
Maxwell's protest comes after Trump blasted football players and rescinded a White House invitation for NBA champion Stephen Curry in a two-day rant that targeted top professional athletes.
"That's a total disrespect of everything that we stand for," Trump said of kneeling through the anthem.
He added, "Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, you'd say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now.
He's fired."
Maxwell informed A's manager Bob Melvin and general manager David Forst of his intention to kneel before Saturday's game.
He also held a team meeting in which he addressed questions from teammates.
Maxwell did not play in Oakland's 1-0 win.
Canha approached Maxwell after the meeting to offer his support.
"I could tell he was getting kind of choked up and emotional about his beliefs and how he feels about the racial discrimination that's going on in this country right now," Canha said.
"I felt like every fiber in my being was telling me that he needed a brother today."
The Athletics released a statement on Twitter shortly after the anthem, saying they "respect and support all of our players' constitutional rights and freedom of expression" and "pride ourselves on being inclusive."
The league also issued a statement: "Major League Baseball has a longstanding tradition of honoring our nation prior to the start of our games.
We also respect that each of our players is an individual with his own background, perspectives and opinions.
We believe that our game will continue to bring our fans, their communities and our players together."
Maxwell was born in Wiesbaden, Germany, while his father was stationed there in the Army, but he grew up in Huntsville, Alabama, which is where Trump made his statements at a rally Friday.
"The racism in the South is disgusting," Maxwell said.
"It bothers me, and it hits home for me because that's where I'm from.
The racism in the South is pretty aggressive, and I dealt with it all the way through my childhood, and my sister went through it.
I feel that that's something that needs to be addressed and that needs to be changed."
League executives and star players alike condemned Trump's words on Saturday, and Maxwell predicted on Twitter that athletes would begin kneeling in other sports following "comments like that coming from our president."
A few hours later, he followed through.
"This now has gone from just a BlackLives Matter topic to just complete inequality of any man or woman that wants to stand for Their rights!"
Maxwell wrote.
Maxwell is decidedly patriotic and comes from a military family.
His agent, Matt Sosnick, told The Associated Press that "the Maxwells' love and appreciation for our country is indisputable."
"Bruce has made it clear that he is taking a stand about what he perceives as racial injustices in this country, and his personal disappointment with President Trump's response to a number of professional athletes' totally peaceful, non-violent protests.
"Bruce has shared with both me and his teammates that his feelings have nothing to do with a lack of patriotism or a hatred of any man, but rather everything to do with equality for men, women and children regardless of race or religion."
More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball



AP writer Ronald Blum contributed from New York.
Carmelo Anthony won't be at Knicks training camp after all.
He'll be in Oklahoma City, joining Russell Westbrook and Paul George in a loaded lineup.
The Knicks agreed to trade Anthony to the Thunder on Saturday, saving themselves a potentially awkward reunion next week with the player they'd been trying to deal since last season.
New York will get Enes Kanter, Doug McDermott and a draft pick, a person with knowledge of the deal said.
The person spoke with The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because the trade had not been announced.
The Knicks had said just a day earlier that they expected Anthony to be there when they reported for camp Monday.
But it was clear they didn't want him anymore and he no longer wanted to be in New York, where he arrived with so much hype that was never fulfilled in February 2011.
He rarely had a championship core around him in New York but jumps right into one in Oklahoma City along with Westbrook, the NBA MVP, and fellow All-Star George, who was acquired from Indiana this summer.
Anthony will see his old teammates soon: The Knicks open the regular season at Oklahoma City on Oct. 19.
Anthony agreed to waive his no-trade clause to complete the deal, which was first reported by The Vertical.
Phil Jackson spent the latter part of his time in New York making it clear he wanted to move Anthony.
But a deal was difficult because the 33-year-old forward has two years and about $54 million left on his contract, along with the ability to decline any trade.
He had long maintained that he wanted to stay in New York, but the constant losing and a chance to play with a talented lineup convinced him it was finally time to go.
After making the postseason each of his first 10 seasons, he has been on the sidelines the last four years and said at the end of last season his priority was a chance to win.
He wouldn't have that in New York, where the Knicks are emphasizing youth and have little proven talent with which to surround Anthony.
But he is close with Westbrook and George and should fit in nicely.
He can possibly settle into the spot-up shooter role he's played in the Olympics, where he's won a record three gold medals and is the career scoring leader for the U.S. men.
The trade ends an unfulfilling 6 1/2-year run in New York for Anthony, where he could never shake his reputation of an elite scorer who can't carry a team to a ring.
The Knicks made the playoffs his first three seasons and reached the second round in 2013, when Anthony led the league with 28.7 points per game.
But after that they never seriously proved they could do anything consistently beyond make headlines.
And Anthony was right in the middle of that, with constant trade speculation after Jackson's criticism of Anthony's game.
Jackson and the Knicks parted ways in June and though the Knicks kept looking, team president Steve Mills and general manager Scott Perry told Anthony they wouldn't accept a trade that would hinder their plans to rebuild through youth.
It didn't help that Anthony had told the Knicks he would accept trades only to Houston and Cleveland, but a deal was finally found when he agreed to add Oklahoma City to his list of destinations.
Anthony moved into the top 25 on the NBA's career scoring list last season, and maybe the Thunder can help him reach elusive team success.
Jackson noted that the Knicks hadn't been able to win with Anthony, though one division title and three playoff berths give Anthony the best resume of anyone who played for the team in the 21st century.
He had higher aspirations when he began pushing Denver to trade him to New York in 2010.
But the Knicks gave up much of their young talent and future assets to get him, hindering their ability to fortify the team around their leading scorer in recent years.
Anthony averaged 22.4 points last season and made his 10th All-Star Game, though that was the second straight season he finished well off his career average of 24.8 per game.
Kanter, a 6-foot-11 center from Turkey who was the third pick of the 2011 draft, has averaged 11.3 points for Utah and the Thunder.
He posted a video thanking the Oklahoma City community and imploring the Thunder to beat Golden State.
"It's a new adventure for me.
New York, so please pray for me," he said.
McDermott has averaged 8.0 points and will be playing for his third team since being selected with the No.
11 pick in 2014.
More AP NBA: http://apnews.com/tag/NBAbasketball
It was happening like it had so often in the past.
A once-sluggish Iowa team had come to life in the fourth quarter at home under the lights, and another top-five opponent was set to go down.
Trace McSorley, Juwan Johnson and the resilient Nittany Lions flipped the script, scoring on the game's final play to survive a wild Big Ten opener.
Johnson caught a seven-yard TD pass as time expired and fourth-ranked Penn State rallied to stun Iowa 21-19 Saturday night.
Saquon Barkley had 211 yards rushing and 94 yards receiving for the Nittany Lions (4-0, 1-0), who outgained Iowa 579-273 but nearly blew a game that could've been crippling to their postseason hopes.
"Felt like with (Johnson) we had a height advantage and we could slip him through the middle of the field," Penn State coach James Franklin said of the winning play.
Akrum Wadley had a 70-yard TD reception midway through the fourth quarter and a 35-yard touchdown run with 1:42 left to put the Hawkeyes (3-1, 0-1) ahead 19-15.
Penn State went 80 yards on 12 plays and just 1:42 to close out the game, and McSorley found Johnson in a crowded end zone on fourth down.
McSorley finished with 284 yards passing on 48 tries.
Wadley had 80 yards rushing and 75 yards receiving and Nate Stanley threw for 191 yards and two TDs for Iowa.
"It's a tough loss for all of us," Iowa coach Kirk Ferentz said.
"You can see first-hand why they were the Big Ten champs last year."
THE TAKEAWAY

Penn State: Michigan came into Iowa City in a similar spot a year ago and lost 14-13, so the Nittany Lions should be happy they avoided a loss that would've erased their margin of error for the playoffs.
Barkley was unstoppable and Penn State's defense was brilliant.
But the Nittany Lions didn't do a ton in the passing game until the final drive  when McSorley's final pass was right on the money.
Iowa: The Hawkeyes' defense, led by preseason All-American linebacker Josey Jewell, played its heart out.
Wadley then put Iowa in position to make a major statement nationally, but the Nittany Lions simply made one more play than they did.
"This game sucks.
But you've got to move on," said Jewell, who finished with 16 tackles.
POLL IMPLICATIONS

Third-ranked Oklahoma struggled with a winless Baylor on the road, and Iowa is clearly better than the Bears.
But it's unclear if Penn State did enough to leapfrog the Sooners  who have a win over Ohio State to their credit.
SAQUON'S BRILLIANCE

Penn State faced a 3rd-down-and-6 up just 15-13 midway through the fourth quarter.
McSorley threw a swing pass to Barkley, who was pinned to the sideline.
But Barkley charged up the field, leapt over a Hawkeyes defender and got the first down  keeping alive a drive that burned the clock.
"The big difference in the game was that running back.
He's a phenomenal player," Ferentz said.
Barkley also caught 12 passes.
THE NUMBERS

Penn State ran 99 plays.
Iowa had just 45.
...Stanley has thrown for 12 touchdowns against just one interception in his first four starts.
...Johnson finished with 92 yards on seven catches.
...Penn State gained 29 first downs, while Iowa had just 11.
HE SAID IT

"I cannot imagine there is a better player in all of college football.
The guy is special," Franklin said of Barkley.
UP NEXT

Penn State hosts Indiana on Saturday.
Iowa plays at Michigan State next weekend.
More AP college football: http://collegefootball.ap.org and https://twitter.com/APTop25
One year into a rebuild, the New York Yankees are back in the playoffs.
Greg Bird, among the new generation of Baby Bombers, hit a three-run homer that led New York over the Toronto Blue Jays 5-1 on Saturday to clinch no worse than a wild card.
"I feel like our motto in the offseason was: 'We're going to surprise people,'" Bird said.
"Obviously, we had a good spring, but we knew that wasn't the real deal.
We came out and played our game the whole year, and I feel like we showed people."
Sonny Gray (10-11), among New York's midseason reinforcements, allowed one run and four hits in six innings as the Yankees won for the 11th time in 14 games and at 86-68 matched their season high of 18 games over .500.
"I didn't know exactly what we were going to be this year, but when I saw the way these kids were playing in spring training and the depth of our talent, it got me really excited and I thought it was possible," Yankees manager Joe Girardi said.
Chase Headley reached base three times to help the Yankees reach the postseason for the 53rd time in franchise history.
The Los Angeles Dodgers are second with 31.
"We're a lot better than a lot of people thought we were," Headley said.
Unless New York overcomes Boston's four-game lead the AL East, the Yankees would play in the AL wild card game on Oct. 3, most likely at home against Minnesota.
New York lost the wild card matchup to Houston 3-0 at home two years ago and has not won a postseason game since Derek Jeter broke an ankle in the 2012 AL Championship Series opener against Detroit.
Led by Aaron Judge and Gary Sanchez, New York celebrated in a low-key manner on the field after former-Yankee Rob Refsnyder hit a game-ending groundout off Aroldis Chapman, then sprayed bubbly in the visitors' clubhouse.
"This is just the beginning," Judge said.
"We've got a chance to be in the postseason, now we've got to keep it rolling."
Longtime Yankees left-hander CC Sabathia was excited to be heading back to October with a new group of teammates.
"I felt like the talent was always in here.
It was just a matter of when it was going to come through and it came through really quick for us," Sabathia said.
In his 10th season managing the Yankees, Girardi enjoyed the success of New York's youngsters.
"To see the kids kind of grow up in front of you, it's special," Girardi said.
Minnesota, which has a 4?-game lead for the second wild card, has been eliminated by the Yankees in four of its last five postseason appearances and was swept in a three-game series at New York this week.
Toronto was eliminated with the loss after consecutive losses in the AL Championship Series.
"A frustrating year for everybody," right-hander Joe Biagini said.
Bird, who spent much of the year sidelined and hampered by a right ankle injury, connected off Biagini (3-12) in the fifth inning for his sixth home run of the season and third in seven games.
Todd Frazier, another of the Yankees' July reinforcements, homered against Tim Mayza in the eighth, and Starlin Castro added an RBI single off Luis Santos in the ninth.
Gray, acquired from Oakland at the trade deadline, improved to 4-6 with a 3.12 ERA in 10 starts with the Yankees.
Chad Green, David Robertson and Chapman each retired three straight batters.
Teoscar Hernandez homered in the third, but Biagini allowed three runs, three hits and four walks in five innings, falling to 0-4 with a 6.03 ERA in six starts since rejoining Toronto's rotation on Aug. 27.
WHIFFS

Judge struck out twice and raised his season total to 201, becoming the sixth player to strike out 200 or more times in a season after Mark Reynolds (223 in 2009, 211 in 2010 and 204 in 2008), Adam Dunn (222 in 2012), Chris Davis (219 last year and 208 in 2015), Chris Carter (212 in 2013 and 206 last year) and Drew Stubbs (2005 in 2011).
Judge also set a rookie record, breaking Kris Bryant's 199 times in 2015.
NO HUSTLE

Sanchez failed to hustle out of the batter's box on his leadoff drive in the ninth, which bounced off the glove of a leaping center fielder Kevin Pillar at the wall and went for a double.
SECURITY REVIEW

The Blue Jays are reviewing security procedures after a man gained access to the Yankees clubhouse following Friday's game.
The man was taken into custody by Toronto Police.
TRAINERS ROOM

Yankees: RHP Luis Severino, New York's likely starter in the wild card game, was hit on the back of his left shoulder by a line drive while the Blue Jays were taking batting practice but didn't appear to suffer a serious injury.
"Seve seems to be fine," Girardi said.
... RHP Adam Warren (back) threw a 25-pitch bullpen session and is scheduled to throw again in a simulated game Tuesday.
Warren could be activated after that if there are no issues.
... OF Aaron Hicks (strained left oblique) had five at-bats in a simulated game at the Yankees minor league complex in Tampa, Florida.
UP NEXT

LHP Jaime Garcia (1-2 in AL, 5-9 overall) starts Sunday for the Yankees and is winless in seven starts with New York.
RHP Marcus Stroman (12-8) starts for Toronto and has a 2.18 ERA in four September starts.
He is 0-1 with a 5.79 ERA in three starts against the Yankees this season.
More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball
There was a moment Saturday afternoon when No.
2 Clemson was tied with Boston College heading into the fourth quarter and No.
5 Southern California was tied in the fourth quarter with California.
8 Michigan was struggling to score against Purdue and No.
14 Miami was struggling to stop Toledo.
12 Florida State had already lost.
The college football season was all set to be turned upside down.
Not so fast.
Clemson cruised.
USC answered the challenge.
Michigan found some offense.
Miami pulled away.
Later, No.
3 Oklahoma held off winless Baylor and No.
4 Penn State made the greatest escape of all at Iowa  with a walk-off touchdown.
16 TCU ended up making the biggest statement of the day at No.
6 Oklahoma State: Never underestimate a team coach by Gary Patterson.
The Top 25 thoughts, takedowns and takeaways from week four of the college football season.
It would be hard to find a stranger and more exciting football game than Penn State-Iowa .
The Hawkeyes had two possessions in the fourth quarter, ran six plays and scored two touchdowns.
The Nittany Lions outgained Iowa, 579-273.
Penn State's Saquon Barkley was superhuman .
Iowa linebacker Josey Jewell was everywhere.
Their meetings were basically the definition of Big Ten football.
Just as the Oklahoma State bandwagon was filling up, the Cowboys got taken apart by the Horned Frogs , who dominated time of possession and made OSU quarterback Mason Rudolph uncomfortable for the first time this season.
TCU has had some ups and downs in six seasons since joining the Big 12.
The Frogs are 26-20 in conference play, but Patterson has shown the ability to adjust, repair and find solutions to keep the Frogs dangerous  especially, as the coach said, when not much is expected of them.
Any reason to worry about defending national champion Clemson after it slogged through three quarters against BC ?
Hard to get excited about playing the Eagles after beating Auburn and Louisville the previous two weeks.
Clemson also could have been looking ahead.
The Tigers go to No.
13 Virginia Tech next Saturday and Lane Stadium should be shaking.
ESPN's "College GameDay" will be in town.
Sam Darnold is up to seven interceptions on the season for USC .
That's no way to win a Heisman Trophy.
Also, no reason to panic.
USC plays 12 straight weeks and the next game could be its toughest of the season.
The Trojans played Cal without star running back Ronald Jones, receiver Steven Mitchell and linebacker Porter Gustin.
Now the Trojans have a short week and road trip to No.
18 Washington State on Friday night.
The winning streak is now 31 for No.
20 Florida over Kentucky and the Wildcats have never had a better chance.
For all the angst about the Gators' offense, Florida is 2-0 in the SEC.
Unlike the last two years, when Florida took advantage of a weak SEC East to win division titles, there is at least one team on that side of the conference that looks legit: No.
11 Georgia.
Georgia hammered No.
17 Mississippi State, and it should be noted, Notre Dame has now outscored its three non-Georgia opponents 136-54 and lost to Georgia 20-19 at home.
Mississippi State's Dan Mullen, anointed the second-best coach in the SEC after last week's win against LSU, is now 2-14 in games when both teams are ranked.
Looking forward to a week of Jim Harbaugh ignoring questions about Michigan's quarterback situation.
John O'Korn relieved an injured Wilson Speight for the Wolverines and gave the offense a spark .
14. Credit to Miami for knocking off weeks of rust due to the Hurricane Irma and outscoring a Toledo team that that can really play offense .
Toledo coach Jason Candle is likely to follow former Rockets coach Matt Campbell, now at Iowa State, to the Power Five in due time.
Florida State is 0-2 for the first time since 1989 .
Hopes for College Football Playoff run are probably gone.
So what now?
Freshman quarterback James Blackman showed promise, but things have to get much better fast.
Jimbo Fisher is a good bet to salvage a season for the Seminoles, but there are far fewer soft spots on the ACC schedule these days.
Not a misprint on next week's schedule: Florida State (0-2) at Wake Forest (4-0).
North Carolina State's All-America defensive lineman Bradley Chubb apologized for spitting on the midfield logo at Doak Campbell Stadium after the victory against Florida State.
It was far from the worst thing Chubb, who had two sacks and a forced fumble, did to Florida State on Saturday.
Despite some odd clock management at the end of regulation by Texas A&M coach Kevin Sumlin, the Aggies beat Arkansas in another wild game between the SEC West rivals.
A win's a win so Sumlin should get a break from the antsy Aggies fans this week.
The Razorbacks, however, are now 10-23 in the Southeastern Conference under coach Bret Bielema and at 1-2 already this season that could get ugly.
A $15 million buyout that drops to about $11 million after Jan. 1 could keep Bielema safe.
Also, athletic director Jeff Long still seems supportive.
The problem is: A 3-9 season that leaves the fanbase hopeless can make keeping a coach even more costly in the long run.
Texas Tech is 3-0 and playing a little defense, which could bode well coach Kliff Kingsbury in a pivotal season.
The Red Raiders are allowing 26.5 points per game.
Not great, but 17 points better than 2016 when they were last in FBS.
Not all victories are feel-good.
Tennessee beat winless UMass 17-13 and lots of Volunteers fans decided not stick around Neyland Stadium to see their team finish it off.
Everybody wants 'Bama.
But only a few can handle 'Bama at its best.
Vanderbilt is not one of those teams.
The Tide had a school-record 38 first downs against the Commodores, who came into Saturday with the No.
1 defense in the country.
Vanderbilt ran 38 plays.
Score: Nebraska 27, Rutgers 17 .
Related: UCF, coached by former Nebraska quarterback Scott Frost, 38, Maryland 10.
Should be noted: The Terps played with a third-string quarterback.
Follow Ralph D. Russo at www.Twitter.com/ralphDrussoAP



More AP college football coverage: http://collegefootball.ap.org and on Twitter at http://twitter.com/APTop25
TCU felt ignored heading into its matchup with high-powered Oklahoma State.
The Horned Frogs can't be overlooked anymore.
Darius Anderson ran for a career-high 160 yards and three touchdowns, and No.
16 TCU upset the sixth-ranked Cowboys 44-31 on Saturday to stamp the Horned Frogs as a Big 12 contender.
"People can say what they want to say, but we know what we are, and we try to be the best team every day," TCU defensive end Ben Banogu said.
"But you don't just get there after one big win, it's throughout the season.
If we can keep the ball rolling and keeping doing what we do, then we'll find ourselves in that conversation."
Kenny Hill passed for 228 yards for the Horned Frogs (4-0, 1-0 Big 12), who ran 52 times for 238 yards.
"We want to be relevant, you want to win enough to get noticed," TCU coach Gary Patterson said.
"It was also an advantage that no one was giving us a chance.
We play better that way."
TCU gave Oklahoma State's Mason Rudolph time to throw, but he often couldn't find enough open receivers and settled for short passes or threw the ball away.
He completed 22 of 41 passes for 398 yards and two touchdowns, but he threw two interceptions.
James Washington caught six passes for 153 yards and a touchdown and Marcell Ateman caught six passes for 100 yards for the Cowboys (3-1, 0-1).
TCU focused on taking away the deep ball.
The Horned Frogs got burned once, on an 86-yard touchdown catch by Washington.
But most of the rest of their passes were underneath, and many required precise throws by Rudolph.
"They feed off of it," Patterson said.
"Their energy, they feed off the long ball and the quick play and all of it, so for us, we wanted to make you pay, and that's really what the group did.
We made them drive it.
We made them drive it and then anything can happen."
The Horned Frogs led 37-17 in the fourth quarter before the Cowboys rallied and cut the deficit to six points.
Anderson's 42-yard touchdown run with 2:37 remaining closed the deal.
Oklahoma State committed four turnovers to one for TCU.
"We didn't play very smart and very disciplined, and really, we got outcoached," Oklahoma State coach Mike Gundy said.
"I thought that they had better plans, and their players executed their plans better than we did."
TAKEAWAYS

TCU: The Horned Frogs controlled the clock against Oklahoma State's previously stingy defense for much of the game.
TCU ran 85 plays and kept the ball for just over 39 minutes.
Oklahoma State: The Cowboys, who had been averaging nearly 200 yards rushing per game, were held to 101 yards on 31 carries.
Rudolph, who had emerged as one of the favorites in the Heisman race, took a step back with the loss.
POLL IMPLICATIONS

TCU: Winning against a Top 6 team is rare, especially on the road.
Add TCU's reputation and unbeaten record, and the Horned Frogs should get a significant boost, possibly into the Top 10.
Oklahoma State: The Cowboys will likely fall out of the top 10.
Though TCU is a good team, Oklahoma State doesn't have a quality nonconference win to soften the blow.
"We're ready to win again," Oklahoma State safety Ramon Richards said.
"We're ready to win.
That's our mindset, regardless of any game, whether we win or not.
We always come prepared and ready to win."
ANDERSON EMERGES

Anderson's three touchdowns against Oklahoma State were a career high.
"He made some cuts, did some plays, and I told him to keep his nose down because it's a long season," Patterson said.
His final touchdown was on a read play.
"They were like, if it's not clear totally, give it to him and let him go because he was toting it today," Hill said.
UH-OH

Oklahoma State trailed 37-24 and was driving when receiver Jalen McCleskey threw an ill-advised pass that TCU's Nick Orr intercepted at the TCU 5 with 6:06 to play.
INJURY REPORT

Gundy said right guard Larry Williams will miss the rest of the season with an ankle injury.
An Oklahoma State spokesman said Williams was injured in practice during the week.
UP NEXT

TCU: The Horned Frogs have a bye before hosting West Virginia on Oct. 7.
The Mountaineers rolled past Kansas 56-34 on Saturday.
OKLAHOMA STATE: The Cowboys play at Texas Tech on Saturday.
The Red Raiders are undefeated and just beat Houston 27-24 on the road on Saturday to snap the Cougars' 16-game home win streak.
Follow Cliff Brunt on Twitter: www.twitter.com/CliffBruntAP



More AP college football: http://collegefootball.ap.org and https://twitter.com/APTop25 .
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin defended President Donald Trump's comments calling for NFL players who kneel during the national anthem to be fired, saying, players "have the right to have the First Amendment off the field."
This isnt about Democrats.
It's not about Republicans.
It's not about
A look at what's happening all around the majors today:  ANTHEM PROTESTS Bruce Maxwell of the Oakland Athletics became the first major league baseball player to kneel during the national anthem on Saturday, adopting a protest started by former San Francisco 49ers quarterback
The Stanley Cup champion Pittsburgh Penguins will visit the White House this year, the team said in a statement on Sunday.
The Penguins said they "respect the institution of the Office of the President."
"Any agreement or disagreement with a president's politics, policies or agenda can be expressed
Brian Boyle hopes to play hockey again soon after being diagnosed with chronic myeloid leukemia, a type of bone-marrow cancer that the New Jersey Devils' team doctor said can largely be treated with medication.
The 32-year-old forward was diagnosed with CML after bloodwork at the start of training
Which we're we're getting excited to sports guys in here you know.
But Jones and write a very divisive topic indeed.
For years you know there's been reports.
Just actual players.
Just having this disease which is just hearing crop you know cross the spore and families in an ex players.
And hand
The NCAA is in the process of reforming its rules for athletes who transfer  and the mere suggestion of changes that could make it easier for football and basketball players to leave one school and play immediately for another was enough to stir things up.
"How can you plan a roster or a team when
NFL players and owners alike have spoken out, after President Donald Trump made comments about athletes kneeling during the national anthem on Friday.
Wouldnt you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, youd say, Get that son of a b---- off the field right now.
He's fired, Trump said to loud applause at a Friday rally in Huntsville, Alabama.
San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick started the movement last year, refusing to stand during The Star-Spangled Banner to protest the treatment of black people by police.
Kaepernick became a free agent and has not been signed by a new team for this season.
If a player wants the privilege of making millions of dollars in the NFL,or other leagues, he or she should not be allowed to disrespect.... Trump tweeted Saturday.
...our Great American Flag (or Country) and should stand for the National Anthem.
If not, YOURE FIRED, he continued in another tweet.
Find something else to do!
On Sunday, Trump tweeted, If NFL fans refuse to go to games until players stop disrespecting our Flag & Country, you will see change take place fast.
Fire or suspend!
He said in another message, ...NFL attendance and ratings are WAY DOWN.
Boring games yes, but many stay away because they love our country.
League should back U.S.

Trump's remarks provoked team owners and the NFL to stridently defend the sport and its players.
NFL commissioner Roger Goodell

Goodell quickly condemned Trumps comments.
The NFL and our players are at our best when we help create a sense of unity in our country and our culture, he said in a Saturday statement.
There is no better example than the amazing response from our clubs and players to the terrible natural disasters we've experienced over the last month.
Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL, our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities.
Atlanta Falcons

We are at our very best when we are working together, building unity and including everyones voice in a constructive dialogue, owner Arthur Blank said in a statement posted to the Falcons Twitter account on Saturday.
Creating division or demonizing viewpoints that are different than our own accomplishes nothing positive and undermines our collective ability to achieve the ideals of our democracy.
Arizona Cardinals

I thought the commissioner had a great statement, and I agree with it, Cardinals coach Bruce Arians said Saturday, according to AZCardinals.com.
Ive been in locker rooms for 25 years, and some of the most reputable men Ive ever met wear that uniform.
To even overcome the things in their life to get to the NFL is amazing.
What theyve done in the last month for hurricane relief victims speaks volumes of what were all about in the NFL.
Its a shame that were still dealing with these issues, over and over and over, and he somehow gets a pass to say these things, player Frostee Rucker was quoted as saying by the website.
These guys, weve got to stay together and show him in a different way.
Instead of lashing out and being pissed off about it, weve got to stick together.
Show compassion, love and everything else we do.
Baltimore Ravens

We recognize our players influence, Baltimore Ravens owner Steve Bisciotti said in a statement tweeted by the team.
Bisciotti said he 100 percent supports his players' decision to kneel during the national anthem.
At least seven of them did, joined by more than a dozen Jacksonville Jaguars, before the teams played at Wembley Stadium in London on Sunday.
Other players linked arms -- and Jacksonville Jaguars owner Shad Khan joined them, standing between tight end Marcedes Lewis and linebacker Telvin Smith.
He called it a privilege to do so.
Buffalo Bills

The Buffalo Bills were bothered enough by the situation to hold a voluntary team meeting on Saturday, with players, coaches, staff and ownership all taking part.
Our goal was to provide open dialogue and communication.
We listened to one another.
We believe it's the best way to work through any issue we are facing, on and off the field," owners Terry and Kim Pegula said in a statement distributed by the Bills.
President Trumps remarks were divisive and disrespectful to the entire NFL community, but we tried to use them as an opportunity to further unify our team and our organization.
Our players have the freedom to express themselves in a respectful and thoughtful manner and we all agreed that our sole message is to provide and to promote an environment that is focused on love and equality.
Carolina Panthers

Owner Jerry Richardson is not releasing a statement, a team spokesperson told the Charlotte Observer.
Trump!!
Panthers linebacker Thomas Davis tweeted, adding several emojis.
Chicago Bears

The Chicago Bears are proud to support our players, coaches and all members of our organization to bring peace and unity together through football, Chicago Bears Chairman George H. McCaskey said in a statement posted by the teams Twitter account.
What makes this the greatest country in the world are the liberties it was founded upon and the freedom to express oneself in a respectful and peaceful manner.
Through important dialogue with our players and team, this divisive political situation has unified our franchise for the present and the future.
Cincinnati Bengals

I cant take anything our Celebrity in Chief says seriously, Bengals player George Iloka tweeted.
Hes a real life clown/troll, he added, including a clown emoji.
Cleveland Browns

We must not let misguided, uninformed and divisive comments from the President or anyone else deter us from our efforts to unify.
Our stance in support of the liberties of peaceful, personal expression afforded to our players and all Americans will remain strong, and we will continue to encourage our players to respectfully use their earned platform to inspire positive change in our nation and throughout society, Browns owners Dee and Jimmy Haslam said in a statement posted on the teams Twitter account.
Dallas Cowboys

Jason Garrett, the Cowboys coach, isnt planning to respond to Trumps remarks, the Fort Worth Star-Telegram reported.
I dont agree with his comments, but I love my team, linebacker Jaylon Smith was quoted as saying by the newspaper regarding the president.
Really no other comment than that.
I mean, I dont agree with it, but 

Denver Broncos

Our players have shown a tremendous commitment to raising awareness for important societal issues by using their platform in a positive way, Broncos CEO Joe Ellis said in a statement tweeted by the team Saturday.
As an organization, we could not be more proud, appreciative and grateful for our players, Ellis said.
Well continue to support them and work together to advocate for values of respect, diversity and inclusion.
Detroit Lions

Lions owner Martha Firestone Ford said in a statement released Sunday, Our game has long provided a powerful platform for dialogue and positive change in many communities throughout our nation.
Thanks primarily to our players, the NFL also has been a unifying force in our country and impactful change has and hopefully will continue to be the result of peaceful expression, done so in order to highlight social injustices of all kind.
Negative and disrespectful comments suggesting otherwise are contrary to the founding principles of our country, and we do not support those comments or opinions.
Green Bay Packers

It's unfortunate that the President decided to use his immense platform to make divisive and offensive statements about our players and the NFL, Packers President and CEO Mark Murphy said in a statement released Saturday.
We strongly believe that players are leaders in our communities and positive influences.
They have achieved their positions through tremendous work and dedication and should be celebrated for their success and positive impact.
We believe it is important to support any of our players who choose to peacefully express themselves with the hope of change for good.
As Americans, we are fortunate to be able to speak openly and freely.
On Sunday, quarterback Aaron Rodgers posted a photo to Instagram which showed him kneeling on the field with teammates.
#unity #brotherhood #family #dedication #love # A post shared by Aaron Rodgers (@aaronrodgers12) on Sep 24, 2017 at 6:34am PDT

Houston Texans

The comments made by the president were divisive and counterproductive to what our country needs right now, Houston Texans Chairman and CEO Robert McNair said in a statement tweeted Sunday.
I hope the reaction from our players results in positive action for our league, our communities and our country as a whole to make a positive difference in our society.
Indianapolis Colts

I am troubled by the Presidents recent comments about our league and our players, Colts owner Jim Irsay said in a Saturday statement.
Sports in America have the unique ability to bring people from all walks of life and from different points of view together to work toward or root for a common goal, and the Indianapolis Colts are proud to be a part of that tradition in our home city and state.
Jacksonville Jaguars

It was a privilege to stand on the sidelines with the Jacksonville Jaguars today for the playing of the U.S. national anthem at Wembley Stadium, owner Shad Khan said in a statement, per ESPN reporter Adam Schefter.
Our team and the National Football League reflects our nation, with diversity coming in many forms  race, faith, our views and our goals, Khan said.
We have a lot of work to do, and we can do it, but the comments by the President make it harder.
Thats why it was important for us, and personally for me, to show the world that even if we may differ at times, we can and should be united in the effort to become better as people and a nation.
Kansas City Chiefs

Stick to sports boy...
Sit down and do what your told, player Chris Conley tweeted Friday.
Say or do something we dont like and your fired Well I hate to break it to ya

When will people learn that fear wont make someone sit down, Conley said in another message.
It quite possibly will make more stand up for what they believe in.
Conley has not protested, the Kansas City Star reported.
Los Angeles Chargers

I wholeheartedly agree with the commissioners statement, Chargers owner Dean Spanos said in a Saturday statement.
The NFL and its players, more than anything, have been a force for good.
What our country needs right now is a message of unity, civility and mutual respect.
Los Angeles Rams

We believe in the tenets of the national anthem, which is a pillar of this country; just as freedom of speech is another pillar and a constitutional right, Los Angeles Rams owner Stan Kroenke said in a statement.
We will continue to support our players freedom to peacefully express themselves and the meaningful efforts they make to bring about positive change in our country.
Miami Dolphins

Sports is a common denominator in our world, the Miami Dolphins tweeted Sunday.
We have the responsibility to use this platform to promote understanding, respect & equality.
Display nothing; This is on Publish with no configured Image

Our country needs unifying leadership right now, not more divisiveness, Dolphins owner Stephen Ross said in a Saturday statement.
I know our players who kneeled for the anthem and these are smart young men of character who want to make our world a better place for everyone, he said.
Minnesota Vikings

Rather than make divisive statements, we believe in promoting thoughtful, inspiring conversation that unifies our communities, a statement attributed to Vikings owners Zygi and Mark Wilf and the entire Wilf family said.
We are proud of our players, coaches and staff for the important role they play in our community, and we fully support their constitutional right to respectfully and peacefully express their beliefs.
New England Patriots

New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft, who's been a strong supporter of the president, expressed "deep disappointment" with Trump on Sunday and said politicians could learn much from the unifying spirit of a competitive enterprise like professional football that succeeds from teamwork.
"I am deeply disappointed by the tone of the comments made by the President ...," Kraft said in a statement.
"Our players are intelligent, thoughtful, and care deeply about our community and I support their right to peacefully affect social change and raise awareness in a manner that they feel is most impactful."
New Orleans Saints

We believe strongly in honoring our flag and the national anthem and what it represents and we support our players, a Sunday statement from the New Orleans Saints and Pelicans said.
We must all strive to show that we are all Americans and continue to work toward equality for all.
The NFL and NBA, perhaps more than any sports, have the power to bring communities together.
New York Giants

Comments like we heard last night from the president are inappropriate, offensive and divisive, Giants owners John Mara and Steve Tisch said in a Saturday statement.
We are proud of our players, the vast majority of whom use their NFL platform to make a positive difference in our society.
New York Jets

It was an honor and a privilege to stand arm-in-arm unified with our players during todays National Anthem, a Sunday statement from Jets CEO Christopher Johnson said.
We are very proud of our players and their strong commitment to work in our community to make a positive, constructive, and unifying impact.
Oakland Raiders

About a year ago, before our Tennessee game, I met with Derek Carr and Khalil Mack to ask their permission to have Tommie Smith light the torch for my father before the game in Mexico City, Oakland Raiders owner Mark Davis said in a statement to ESPNs Paul Gutierrez.
I explained to them that I was asking their permission because I had previously told them that I would prefer that they not protest while in the Raiders uniform.
And should they have something to say, once their uniform was off, I might go up there with them.
Over the last year, though, the streets have gotten hot and there has been a lot of static in the air and recently, fuel has been added to the fire, he continued.
I can no longer ask our team to not say something while they are in a Raider uniform.
The only thing I can ask them to do is do it with class.
Do it with pride.
Not only do we have to tell people there is something wrong, we have to come up with answers.
Thats the challenge in front of us as Americans and human beings.
Philadelphia Eagles

Every day I see the genuine dedication and hard work of our players, Eagles chairman and CEO Jeffrey Lurie said in a statement tweeted by the team Saturday.
And I support them as they take their courage, character and commitment into our communities to make them better or to call attention to injustice.
Pittsburgh Steelers

I believe the Commissioner made an appropriate statement, and I have nothing to add at this time, Steelers president Art Rooney II said in a statement, per ESPN.
The team decided to stay in their locker room for the national anthem before their Sunday game against the Chicago Bears, coach Mike Tomlin told CBS.
The move was apparently in reaction to President Donald Trump's suggestion that NFL owners fire players who kneel for the national anthem.
Tampa Bay Buccaneers

Can't wait to hear the response from @nflcommish @NFLPA @NFL #BLACKLIVESMATTER, player Chris Baker tweeted Friday.
So the BLACK NFL PLAYERS are SON OF A B---- now WOW, he said in another tweet.
Tennessee Titans

I am proud to stand with our players and support them in their work on and off the football field, Titans owner Amy Adams Strunk said in a statement.
I completely agree with Commissioner Goodell that we are better off as a nation when we are unified and pulling together.
San Francisco 49ers

The callous and offensive comments made by the President are contradictory to what this great country stands for, 49ers owner Jed York said in a statement.
Our players have exercised their rights as United States citizens in order to spark conversation and action to address social injustice.
We will continue to support them in their peaceful pursuit of positive change in our country and around the world.
The San Francisco 49ers will continue to work toward bringing communities, and those who serve them, closer together.
Seattle Seahawks

We fully support our players use of their freedom of speech and peaceful action to highlight the existing racial and other divides in this country, Seahawks president Peter McLoughlin said in a statement.
As a team, we are united in a mission to bring people together to help create positive change, coach Pete Caroll said in a statement.
We can no longer remain silent.
Caroll said he would be standing with his players.
LONDON (AP) -- The Jacksonville Jaguars are finally starting to feel at home at Wembley Stadium.
Marcedes Lewis caught three of Blake Bortles' four touchdown passes as the Jaguars routed the Baltimore Ravens 44-7 on Sunday in their fifth game in Britain's capital.
Allen Hurns and Leonard Fournette also scored touchdowns for the Jaguars (2-1), who have won each of their last three games played at the venue.
This one, by far, was the easiest.
The Ravens (2-1) managed just 186 yards of total offense, including minus-1 yard in the first quarter.
They managed 15 yards in the first half, and picked up only 12 first downs.
A 6-yard pass from Ryan Mallett, who entered in relief of Joe Flacco in the fourth quarter, to Benjamin Watson with 3:24 remaining prevented the shutout.
It was their worst defeat since Nov. 9, 1997, when they lost 37-0 at Pittsburgh.
Baltimore crossed midfield three times -- and not until the third quarter, when Terrance West gained 7 yards to reach the Jaguars 45.
On the next play, West failed to secure a handoff and fumbled, leading to linebacker Telvin Smith returning it 52 yards to set up Lewis' third touchdown.
Jacksonville punctuated the victory with a fake punt minutes later, with Corey Grant taking a direct snap 58 yards before Fournette punched the ball in from the 3.
Flacco, who finished 8 for 18 for 28 yards, was intercepted twice, once by A.J.
Bouye in the second quarter and once by Jalen Ramsey in the third.
Bortles also left the game early, replaced by Chad Henne on the Jaguars' first drive of the fourth quarter after completing 20 of 31 passes for 244 yards.
Fournette, who finished with 59 yards on 15 carries, became the first Jaguars player to rush for a touchdown in each of his first three games, while Lewis matched Brandon Lloyd as the only players to score three touchdowns at Wembley.
MACLIN PASSES TESTS

Ravens wide receiver Jeremy Maclin was evaluated for a concussion in the second quarter but passed all tests and was allowed to return.
Maclin was injured as he failed to catch a pass that resulted in an interception by Bouye.
Ravens defensive end Brent Urban injured a foot on the second play of the second quarter and did not return.
UP NEXT

Ravens: Host the Pittsburgh Steelers, who they have not lost to at home since 2012.
Jaguars: Visit the New York Jets in the second of three straight games away from Jacksonville.
124

View Gallery





Logan Bowles-USA TODAY Sports | Logan Bowles
The Pittsburgh Steelers remained in the locker room during the national anthem as at least 100 NFL players from several teams kneeled or locked arms nationwide just hours after a similar protest in London during the national anthem there.
Members of the Jacksonville Jaguars and the Baltimore Ravens either took a knee or locked arms as the U.S. national anthem was sung at London's Wembley Stadium.
A number of teams kicked off their games Sunday afternoon.
Tomlin had said before the game that Pittsburghs players would remain in the locker room and that were not going to let divisive times or divisive individuals affect our agenda.
Tomlin added that the Steelers made this choice not to be disrespectful to the anthem but to remove ourselves from this circumstance.
People shouldnt have to choose.
Most teams in the early afternoon games locked arms in solidarity.
At least three team owners joined their players.
In London, those who were not kneeling, including the coaches on both teams and Jaguars owner Shahid Khan, locked arms during the national anthem at the game in Londons Wembley Stadium.
Players taking a knee during the performance included Ravens linebacker Terrell Suggs and C.J.
Mosley, wide receiver Mike Wallace and safety Lardarius Webb as well as Jaguars running back Leonard Fournette, linebacker Dante Fowler, defensive tackle Calais Campbell, defensive end Yannick Ngakoue and cornerback Jalen Ramsey.
The players then stood up for God Save the Queen, the British anthem.
The Jaguars tweeted a photo shortly after the team's defiant message with the caption: Unity.
Ravens owner Steve Bisciotti released a statement posted on Twitter after the incident, saying: We recognize our players influence.
We respect their demonstration and support them 100 percent.
All voices need to be heard.
Thats democracy in its highest form.
The display marked a tumultuous weekend between the NFL and Trump, who called the players kneeling during "The Star-Spangled Banner" disrespectful.
If NFL fans refuse to go to games until players stop disrespecting our Flag & Country, you will see change take place fast, Trump tweeted Sunday morning.
"Fire or suspend!
He followed it up shortly after, tweeting: "...NFL attendance and ratings are WAY DOWN.
Boring games yes, but many stay away because they love our country.
League should back U.S."

#unity #brotherhood #family #dedication #love # A post shared by Aaron Rodgers (@aaronrodgers12) on Sep 24, 2017 at 6:34am PDT

Thirteen other NFL games are scheduled to take place on Sunday, with many players expected to kneel during the national anthem.
Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers, who will take the field Sunday against the Cincinnati Bengals, posted a photo on Instagram of him and other players kneeling before the Ravens and Jaguars game kicked off.
#unity #brotherhood #family #dedication #love, he captioned the photo.
New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady also posted a photo on Instagram with running back James White, writing in the caption: "Strength.
Passion.
Brotherhood.
Unity.
Commitment.
Dedication.
Determination.
Respect.
Loyalty.
#nflplayer"

Trump's criticism began on Friday during a rally in Alabama when he called for players to be fired who disrespect the American flag.
"Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say 'get that son of a b ---- off the field right now?
He's fired!
He's fired,'" Trump said to the crowd.
His comments drew sharp criticism among professional athletes and NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell.
"Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL, our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities," Goodell said.
Goodell announced on Twitter Sunday that a video titled, "Inside These Lines" will air during Sunday night's game as a sign of unity in the league.
Trump stood by his words on Saturday when he rescinded Golden State Warrior Stephen Currys invitation to the White House this spring to honor his teams 2017 NBA championship.
He then suggested NFL owners to fire players who kneel during the patriotic song.
Former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick began the controversial movement last year when he refused to stand during The Star-Spangled Banner to protest police brutality against the African-American community.
Kaepernick has since become a free agent, but he has not yet been picked up by any team.
A number of players wore shirts during warmup Sunday that said "#IMWITHKAP" in support of Kaepernick.
The owners of the Baltimore Ravens, the Super Bowl champion New England Patriots and other teams on Sunday joined a chorus of NFL executives criticizing President Donald Trump's suggestion that they fire players who kneel for the national anthem.
The statements, from Patriots owner Robert Kraft and Ravens owner Steve Bisciotti, contrasted a morning tweet from Trump and further escalated the political drama of the league's game day, which was expected to be one of the most-watched for non-sporting reasons in years.
Bisciotti said he "100 percent" supports his players' decision to kneel during the national anthem.
At least seven of them did, joined by more than a dozen Jacksonville Jaguars, before the teams played at Wembley Stadium in London.
Kraft, who has been a strong backer of the president, expressed "deep disappointment" with Trump and said politicians could learn much from the unifying spirit of a competitive, team-oriented enterprise like football.
"Our players are intelligent, thoughtful, and care deeply about our community and I support their right to peacefully affect social change and raise awareness in a manner that they feel is most impactful," Kraft said in a statement.
Quarterback Colin Kaepernick started the kneeling movement last year when he played for the San Francisco 49ers, refusing to stand during "The Star-Spangled Banner" to protest the treatment of black people by police.
Kaepernick became a free agent and has not been signed by a new team for this season.
Without identifying Kaepernick, Trump aimed a Friday talk at a Huntsville, Alabama, rally at those players who have knelt for the anthem.
"Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, you'd say, `Get that son of a bitch off the field right now.
He's fired,'" he said to loud applause.
Again in a Sunday morning tweet, Trump urged his supporters to take action: "If NFL fans refuse to go to games until players stop disrespecting our Flag & Country, you will see change take place fast.
Fire or suspend!"
Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin followed up Sunday on ABC's "This Week" defending Trump, saying the NFL has many rules governing what players can and cannot do.
"I think what the president is saying is that the owners should have a rule that players should have to stand in respect for the national anthem," Mnuchin said.
"They can do free speech on their own time."
Trump's remarks provoked team owners and the NFL to stridently defend the sport and its players.
The Buffalo Bills were bothered enough by the situation to hold a voluntary team meeting on Saturday, with players, coaches, staff and ownership all taking part.
"Our goal was to provide open dialogue and communication.
We listened to one another.
We believe it's the best way to work through any issue we are facing, on and off the field," owners Terry and Kim Pegula said in a statement distributed by the Bills .
"President Trump's remarks were divisive and disrespectful to the entire NFL community, but we tried to use them as an opportunity to further unify our team and our organization.
Our players have the freedom to express themselves in a respectful and thoughtful manner and we all agreed that our sole message is to provide and to promote an environment that is focused on love and equality."
Commissioner Roger Goodell, who has taken heat for Kaepernick's struggle to find a team, quickly condemned Trump's comments.
"The NFL and our players are at our best when we help create a sense of unity in our country and our culture.
There is no better example than the amazing response from our clubs and players to the terrible natural disasters we've experienced over the last month," Goodell said.
"Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL, our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities."
At least seven team owners donated $1 million each to Trump's inaugural committee.
But Los Angeles Chargers owner Dean Spanos , Atlanta Falcons owner Arthur Blank , New York Giants owners John Mara and Steve Tisch, Miami Dolphins owner Stephen Ross, Indianapolis Colts owner Jim Irsay, Tennessee Titans' controlling owner Amy Adams Strunk and San Francisco 49ers owner Jed York were among the league power brokers who issued condemning statements through their clubs.
"The callous and offensive comments made by the president are contradictory to what this great country stands for," York said.
"Our players have exercised their rights as United States citizens in order to spark conversation and action to address social injustice.
We will continue to support them in their peaceful pursuit of positive change in our country and around the world."
Added Green Bay Packers President and CEO Mark Murphy: "We believe it is important to support any of our players who choose to peacefully express themselves with the hope of change for good.
As Americans, we are fortunate to be able to speak openly and freely."
This weekend's games were sure to bring more protests, with Tampa Bay receiver Desean Jackson promising to make "a statement."
"I know our players who kneeled for the anthem, and these are smart young men of character who want to make our world a better place for everyone," Ross said.
"They wanted to start a conversation and are making a difference in our community, including working with law enforcement to bring people together.
We all can benefit from learning, listening and respecting each other."
SAN DIEGO -- The Colorado Rockies are headed home after Sunday's game against the San Diego Padres.
They hope their final destination after the regular season is the playoffs.
Colorado plays its last road game to wrap up its four-game series in San Diego.
The Rockies have been blanked in three of their last four games, which has allowed some teams, most notably the Milwaukee Brewers, to stay within striking distance.
The Rockies have a one-game lead over the Brewers for the second NL wildcard spot.
"I know the teams that I want to lose when the highlights are on in the locker room," Rockies star Charlie Blackmon said.
"But I don't actively seek out any of the standings.
I think we still have a lot of baseball left to play and I think the most important thing is to not look back, but be looking forward."
Blackmon's game looks grand even if the Rockies have dropped two of three to the Padres in this series.
He leads the league in batting at .325 and is among the leaders in virtually every significant category.
This year he became the 11th player in major league history to collect at least 130 runs, 30 doubles, 10 triples and 35 homers.
The last player to accomplish that feat was Stan Musial in 1948.
"To me it feels the same," Blackmon said about the stress of playing down the stretch.
"I feel other people put that extra pressure on you.
"I'm trying hard every time I go up there.
It doesn't matter if we are 20 games under .500 or 20 games above it.
I think that is the best place for a player to be mentally because they are not giving any at-bats away, good or bad.
I think if I were to play every day and now all of a sudden because of where we are I have to things differently that means I've been doing something wrong all along."
What's gone right for the Rockies is a powerful offense which features Blackmon, Nolan Arenado, DL LeMaieu, Trevor Story and others.
But Black, who won 121 games pitching in the majors, knows a team is only good at its rotation.
On Sunday, German Marquez (10-7, 4.41) is on the mound.
"Your starting pitcher sets the tone over the course of the season," Black said.
"There are games maybe where your starting pitchers falters and you can out slug someone.
But you can't rely on that formula.
You have to rely on starting pitcher, that is what wins."
Marquez, who has split two career decisions versus the Padres, is tied for second among rookie with 10 wins, with his 142 strikeouts No.
The Padres counter with Luis Perdomo (8-10, 4.57), who is 0-3 lifetime against the Rockies.
The right-hander leads the staff woith 16 quality starts.
Over his last six outings, he's heaved a five consecutive quality starts and pitched to a 3.31 ERA.
He beat the Diamondbacks in his last start, although he tied a career-high with six walks.
He tiptoed around the damage enough to allow but two runs in 5 1/3 innings.
"Love the fact he made big pitches," Padres manager Andy Green said.
"He made big pitches when he had to for most of the day.
He put himself in really tough situations.
But I think you've got to be encouraged that he keeps getting out of those situations."
SAN DIEGO (AP) -- The last guy the Colorado Rockies needed to run into as they stagger down the stretch was former teammate Jhoulys Chacin.
A motivated Chacin took a no-hitter into the sixth inning and the San Diego Padres beat Colorado 5-0 on Saturday night, cutting the Rockies' lead for the NL's second wild card to one game over Milwaukee.
The Rockies entered Saturday's games leading St. Louis by 1 1/2 games and Milwaukee by two.
Milwaukee beat the Chicago Cubs 4-3 in 10 innings and the Cardinals lost 11-6 at Pittsburgh.
The Rockies were shut out for the third time in four games and have lost five of six.
Chacin and four relievers combined on a five-hitter.
The right-hander beat his old team for the first time in three starts this year.
"Today was that little extra for me, facing my former club and my last start at home," he said.
"I really wanted to do good and finish the season strong, especially at home.
They got me the first game of this year so I really wanted to beat them today."
Chacin lost to the Rockies here on June 3 and got a no-decision at Colorado on Sunday.
Chacin (13-10) kept the Rockies hitless until DJ LeMahieu hit a sinking liner that diving center fielder Manuel Margot trapped with two outs in the sixth.
Chacin walked the bases loaded before getting Gerardo Parra to fly out.
That was it for Chacin, who struck out six and walked three.
"He was great all day," manager Andy Green said.
"At some point in time it starts creeping into your mind what's going on but it needs to go deeper before it gets too dramatic.
Manny made a great effort to try to take it away.
I think it unseated Jhoulys for a couple of batters but he settled back in."
This is the first time in Rockies history they have been shut out three times in a four-game span in a season.
The last time they were shut out three times on one road trip was in 2009.
"We're not making good contact overall," manager Bud Black said.
"Even though tonight we had some guys we couldn't get the big hit again and that has been the common theme that at-bats have not resulted in not a lot of hard hit balls consistently.
"Some of it was pitching.
Chacin pitched well.
But overall our at-bats haven't been up to most of the guys' standards and we have to turn that around."
The Rockies stranded nine baserunners.
"I wish I had the answer," Black said.
"It's not from guys not getting to the cage early or watching video.
In the last three of four games, we have not been able to get that key hit.
We need the key hit.
We had the bases loaded, guys on first and second two times.
It's more our lack of not getting the clutch hit."
Rockies starter Chad Bettis (1-4) was chased after allowing Yangervis Solarte's RBI single with two outs in the fifth.
San Diego scored again with one out in the sixth when rookie pinch-hitter Christian Villanueva's chopper in front of the plate brought in Cory Spangenberg.
Pitcher Antonio Senzatela fielded the ball and flipped it to catcher Jonathan Lucroy but it was too late.
Spangenberg opened the inning with a single and Austin Hedges followed with a double.
The Padres added three runs in the ninth on a grounder by pinch-hitter Erick Aybar, an error by first baseman Ian Desmond and a sacrifice fly by Margot.
Bettis allowed one run and seven hits in 4 2/3 innings, struck out three and walked two.
CONTEXT

"The Padres have been playing good, credit to them," Desmond said.
"They are playing the spoiler but at the same time I believe we are a better team than they are."
HOME COOKING

Chacin went 9-3 with a 1.79 ERA in 16 starts at Petco Park this year.
His last start of the year will be at San Francisco next weekend.
"You have to feel comfortable at home," he said.
"Every time I pitch at home I feel really great and I make my pitches."
UP NEXT

Rockies: Rookie RHP German Marquez (10-7, 4.41) is scheduled to start the finale of the four-game series.
He is 1-1 with a 6.94 ERA in two starts against San Diego.
Padres: RHP Luis Perdomo (8-10, 4.57) is set to go for the Padres in their home finale.
AIR FORCE ACADEMY, Colo. (AP) -- Rocky Long didn't make any halftime adjustments.
He couldn't.
There wasn't an intermission because the teams kept right on playing.
The San Diego State coach more than got his point across during an 88-minute lightning delay in the second quarter.
The impromptu break provided the perfect opportunity to recharge his sluggish bunch.
Rashaad Penny scored three times, including a 53-yard scamper with 5:39 remaining, and No.
22 San Diego State held off Air Force 28-24 on a dreary Saturday night.
"I welcomed the delay because I thought we had to regroup," Long explained.
"When they said it was going to be an hour and a half  then I didn't like it that much."
Given the lengthy delay that started at 7:56 of the second quarter, both teams agreed to skip intermission and headed straight into the third quarter.
That only allowed Penny to pick up steam.
Penny, the nation's leading rusher entering the game, struggled early in the soggy conditions.
But he finally found some running room as the Aztecs (4-0, 1-0 Mountain West) began their quest to capture a third straight conference title.
Penny finished with 128 yards rushing, which was 68 below his season average.
"You can't always have a great day.
I didn't have a great day," Penny said.
"You have games like this where it's all adversity. "
The rain played a starring role early.
The shower was steady at kickoff and grew more intense with every wind gust.
The conditions led to a botched extra point by Air Force, a punt from San Diego State that traveled only 17 yards and conservative play calling.
The Falcons led 9-0 when the game was halted and the teams sent to their locker rooms.
It was the first weather delay at Falcon Stadium since 1993 against the Aztecs.
"After the delay, we said we can't put ourselves in the hole anymore," Penny explained.
"Just stick with each other and we came out and played great."
On his go-ahead TD, Penny was expecting to go right, but cut back left against an over-pursuing defense and found a crease.
His run came moments after Air Force (1-2, 0-1) grabbed the lead when Tim McVey took a pitch, jumped over a San Diego State defender on the ground, landed backward and twirled into the end zone for a 12-yard score.
Air Force got the ball back with just over 2 minutes left, but Trey Lomax intercepted Arion Worthman's fourth-down pass to help the Aztecs extend their winning streak to seven straight over the Falcons.
"We thought we came out pretty hot.
We had a lot of momentum," McVey said.
"Give them credit -- they came back after the delay ready to play."
It was by no means a thing of beauty for San Diego State, which had a punt blocked, missed a field goal and fumbled deep in Air Force territory.
"The weather played to their strengths and didn't play to ours," Long said.
THE TAKEAWAY

San Diego State: Big exhale.
The Aztecs couldn't get anything going the first half, but Penny saved the night with his big run.
Air Force: The Falcons fell to 19-77-3 all-time against ranked teams, including a 5-16 record under coach Troy Calhoun.
PUNT BLOCK

Air Force's Garrett Kauppila blocked a punt in the fourth quarter, with Lesley Dalger scooping it up and heading toward the end zone.
But Dalger lost control of the ball around the 4.
No matter, Worthman scored on a 1-yard dive with 12:35 remaining.
FULLBACK DIVE

Air Force fullback Parker Wilson had 11 carries on the season before Saturday.
He had his number called 20 times against the Aztecs in large part because of the weather.
Meanwhile, McVey, the team's leading rusher, didn't have his first carry until the fourth quarter.
"It's hard to run the triple option when it's raining like that," McVey explained.
"We were hitting them hard with the fullback and the fullback was running really well."
EMPTY SEATS

Air Force announced the attendance at 27,575, but there was hardly anyone in the seats once the teams returned to the field.
UP NEXT

San Diego State: Hosts Northern Illinois on Saturday.
The Aztecs lead the series 5-0.
Air Force: Travels to New Mexico.
The Falcons lost 45-40 in a game that was played in Dallas last October.
TV: FOX Sports Sun

TIME: Pregame coverage begins at 1 p.m.

BALTIMORE -- Seeking to keep their playoff hopes alive, the Tampa Bay Rays will look for their third straight win over the Baltimore Orioles on Sunday at Camden Yards.
After dropping the series opener Thursday night, the Rays (76-79) have taken the last two in this four-game weekend series behind their big bats and starting pitching.
Lucas Duda and Logan Morrison each went deep in Saturday's 9-6 win over the Orioles, as the Rays set a single-season franchise record for home runs.
They now have 218 this season.
Watch the Tampa Bay Rays on FOX Sports Sun

"It's cool," said Morrison, who clubbed his 37th of the season on the first pitch of the ninth inning Saturday night.
"We've had some guys set some career highs.
That's one aspect of the game where we have done pretty well this year."
Starting pitchers Alex Cobb and Jake Odorizzi, meanwhile, turned in solid outings back-to-back to keep Tampa Bay five games behind the Minnesota Twins for the second American League wild-card spot.
Odorizzi struck out a season-high nine batters and only allowed three hits over six innings in Saturday's win.
The Orioles (74-82) were eliminated from postseason contention with Saturday's loss, their 14th in their last 17 games.
"It's unfortunate, but like I said, we're not going to stop playing hard," said left fielder Trey Mancini, who is riding a career-long hitting streak of 13 games.
"It's a 162-game season.
It is tough to be eliminated from postseason contention, but still got a week of baseball left."
For Sunday's series finale, the Rays will send Chris Archer to the mound.
Archer is looking for his first win since Aug. 22.
He has lost each of his last four starts after experiencing discomfort in his right forearm.
Rays manager Kevin Cash dismissed the idea that the injury is lingering and affecting Archer's performance.
In his most recent start Tuesday against the Chicago Cubs, Archer gave the Rays six solid innings, allowing two earned runs on four hits and striking out six.
"We would not be pitching him if there was any concern," Cash said.
"He's 100 percent healthy, very strong.
You can see that by the stuff he is featuring every fifth day."
Archer will be making his 33rd start of the season.
He is 9-11 with a 4.02 ERA in 192 1/3 innings pitched.
"I think Arch has had a good year," Cash said.
"You look at just the body of work, the innings that he's provided, the opportunities he's gone out there with and given us a chance to win, I think he's had a solid year.
I'd like to see him finish strong."
In 15 prior starts against the Orioles, Archer is 4-7 with a 4.78 ERA.
He is 1-4 all-time at Camden Yards.
This season, Archer is 1-1 against the Orioles with a 6.39 ERA.
He won his last start against them June 23 in Tampa Bay, allowing five earned runs on seven hits over six innings.
Archer also lost to the Orioles at Camden Yards on April 24.
The Orioles will counter with their best starting pitcher this season, Dylan Bundy.
Having already logged a career high for innings pitched, Bundy will make his 29th start of the season Sunday.
Bundy has not won since Aug. 29.
In his last start, he was hammered by the Boston Red Sox for six earned runs on seven hits before earning a no-decision last Monday.
Overall, Bundy has thrown 169 2/3 innings this season.
That's 60 more than he threw last season.
He is 13-9 with a 4.24 ERA.
This will be the fourth start Bundy has made against the Rays this season.
He is 1-1 with a 5.19 ERA over the previous three.
After earning a no-decision against Tampa Bay on April 16 at Camden Yards, Bundy beat the Rays on June 24 in Tampa and lost to them July 1 at home.
In six career starts against Tampa Bay, Bundy is 1-2 with a 6.26 ERA.
TV: CBS

Time: 1 p.m.

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP) -- Jay Cutler could have ended up in the other huddle on Sunday.
The Miami Dolphins quarterback was still weighing his playing options during the offseason after being released by the Chicago Bears in March.
That's when the New York Jets came calling, and Cutler listened.
"We were just feeling each other out," Cutler recalled.
"It wasn't aggressive.
It wasn't super vague.
It was just feeling each other out and it just didn't work out."
That's because the Jets opted instead to sign journeyman quarterback Josh McCown to be their starter, canceling any potential visit by Cutler to New York.
More Miami Dolphins news

"Yes, we had a couple of visits and then they got changed, but for numerous reasons," Cutler said.
"And then they were able to sign Josh, and that was kind of the end of that.
So it worked out for myself and for Josh."
McCown, who played with Cutler in Chicago from 2011-13, ended up becoming the starter for the Jets (0-2) -- easily beating out youngsters Christian Hackenberg and Bryce Petty for the job.
Meanwhile, Cutler had to wait a while to get back on the field.
After the brief flirtation with the Jets, the veteran QB had no enticing deal come his way.
Instead, he decided to retire and join FOX Sports as a TV analyst.
But then Ryan Tannehill went down for the season during training camp, and the Dolphins (1-0) needed a quarterback.
So, coach Adam Gase -- Cutler's offensive coordinator in 2015 -- reached out to his former QB .
"I just asked him if he was interested, and he said, `Yes,'" Gase said.
"Really, I think his biggest (thing was) kind of taking a step back at the time because everything happened so fast was just to make sure he felt like he could really come back without a spring and a training camp."
So far, so good.
In the Dolphins' season opener last week, Cutler was 24 of 34 for 230 yards and a touchdown to help Miami beat the Los Angeles Chargers 19-17 .
"He looks like he never left," Jets coach Todd Bowles said.
"He looks quick, he's very accurate, very smart with the football and they do a good job."
Here are some other things to know about the game Sunday at MetLife Stadium:

DIGGING IN

The Dolphins' run defense was stout in the opener, a big change from last season, when they allowed an NFL-worst 4.8 yards per rush.
The Chargers ran for 44 yards in 14 plays.
"They went away from it after we stopped them a few times," middle linebacker Mike Hull said.
New York is sure to test Miami's depleted linebacker group.
Hull will be making his third career start, and undrafted rookie free agent Chase Allen will likely also see significant action.
RUNNING FREE

On the other side, the Jets' run defense has been awful through two games.
New York has allowed a league-high 370 yards rushing and has to face Jay Ajayi this week.
Ajayi ran for 122 yards in the Dolphins' opener, snapping a streak of 17 games in which the Los Angles Chargers hadn't allowed a 100-yard rusher.
Ajayi has 1,277 yards rushing and six TDs in his past 12 games, including five 100-yard games and three of 200 yards or more rushing.
"We've got to stay in our gaps," defensive end Muhammad Wilkerson said.
"That's for everybody.
We've got to stay in our gaps and attack them."
NOT BEING BLOCKED

The work of the Dolphins' linebackers is made easier by Pro Bowl defensive tackle Ndamukong Suh, who is off to another strong start.
Gase raved about Suh's play against the Chargers.
"I saw a guy that was not going to be blocked," Gase said.
"When they were trying to run the ball, it didn't matter if there was two guys on him or one guy, he was penetrating, creating negative plays, causing chaos.
Basically the same thing I've seen every week since I've been here."
DOLPHIN GROUNDED

Miami linebacker Lawrence Timmons was suspended indefinitely on Tuesday after he went AWOL last Saturday, the day before the team's season opener.
Gase has left open the possibility of the veteran returning at some point, but the Dolphins also acquired his possible replacement by trading a fifth-round draft pick to New Orleans for Stephone Anthony.
Gase said Anthony will "possibly" be ready to play Sunday.
BACK IN BUSINESS

Jets tight end Austin Seferian-Jenkins could give New York's offense a boost in his return from a two-game suspension for violating the NFL's substance abuse policy while with Tampa Bay last year.
Seferian-Jenkins sought help to treat his alcohol issues when he joined the Jets, and marked 243 days sober on Thursday.
He dropped 33 pounds in the offseason and looked impressive during training camp and the preseason.
"I'm fortunate to be standing before y'all," Seferian-Jenkins said, "being able to play football with a clear head and a clear mind, a good perspective and healthy."
The Jets have five tight ends on their roster, but only two are healthy: Seferian-Jenkins and Will Tye.
118

View Gallery





Steve Mitchell-USA TODAY Sports | Steve Mitchell
TV: FOX Sports Florida

TIME: Pregame coverage begins at 3:30 p.m.
The Miami Marlins have been eliminated from playoff contention, but they haven't stopped fighting.
The Arizona Diamondbacks are closing in on their first playoff berth since 2011, but they haven't stopped working to accomplish their goal.
That, in a nutshell, figures to be the mindset for the Marlins (73-81) and Diamondbacks (89-66) when they meet in Sunday's rubber game of a three-game series.
"This is September baseball," Arizona manager Torey Lovullo told mlb.com.
"When you are driving toward something as special as we are, you feel that moment."
Watch the Miami Marlins on FOX Sports Florida

So far, the series has been a hide-your-eyes type of nightmare for pitchers.
The Diamondbacks won Friday's game 13-11 and Miami won 12-6 on Saturday.
On Sunday, the Diamondbacks will throw left-hander Patrick Corbin (14-13, 4.14 ERA) against Miami right-hander Dan Straily (10-9, 4.17 ERA).
Arizona's magic number for hosting the National League wild-card playoff game is one, which means the Diamondbacks can punch their ticket by simply beating the Marlins on Sunday -- no need to worry about what the Colorado Rockies are doing against the San Diego Padres.
But the Diamondbacks -- like every team lately -- are going to try to be extra careful with Marlins right fielder Giancarlo Stanton, who went 3-for-6 with four RBIs and a homer on Saturday.
Stanton's homer was his major-league leading 57th of the season.
"He's been hitting everybody," Marlins manager Don Mattingly told mlb.com when asked about Stanton, who this year has set franchise records for homers and RBIs (125).
"He is capable of hitting two homers per game, pretty much."
Stanton, in fact, has two career homers against Corbin in just 14 at-bats.
But it's not just Stanton who Corbin has trouble keeping in the park.
Corbin has allowed 50 homers the past two years in 55 starts.
He has a career 4.14 ERA, but that mark sinks to 5.00 in his career in September.
In five starts against the Marlins, he is 1-1 with a 5.04 ERA.
Still, Corbin, who broke into the majors in 2012, is one win grom setting his career best with 15 victories.
And his 32nd start, set to happen Sunday, would tie his career high.
This is Corbin's second full year after elbow surgery, and his biggest improvement has been his walk rate, which is down from 3.8 to 2.7.
Meanwhile, Straily has turned in his second straight double-figure win season.
He doesn't have much history against Arizona -- 1-0 with a 3.00 ERA in one career start -- but Straily wants to wipe out a 2017 trend in which he has been much better in the first half than he has been after the All-Star Game.
In reality, Straily has been strong in September throughout his career, going 10-4 with a 4.49 ERA.
So perhaps this year's 5.45 second-half ERA and 6.86 September ERA are just aberrations.
But if Straily struggles a little bit on Sunday, he would truly appreciate a couple of those Stanton moon shots.
Stanton, though, said he doesn't go up there looking for long balls.
"If I go up there trying to hit homers, I would be terrible up there," Stanton told Fox Sports Florida on Saturday night.
"I keep trying to put a good barrel on the ball."
As for his records set this year, Stanton said he doesn't have time for those indulgences at the moment.
"I think when the season is over, I can look at my numbers," said Stanton, a California native who has three homers and 12 RBIs in his past five games.
"I'm feeling better.
It's always good to be on the West Coast -- that locks me in."
TV: FOX

Time: 1 p.m.

MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -- When Xavier Rhodes was in his final season at Florida State in 2012, the scout team quarterback that fall was a redshirt with a big arm and bigger aspirations.
Jameis Winston won the Heisman Trophy the following year while leading the Seminoles to the national championship.
After one more season, he was off to the NFL as the first pick in the draft by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers.
The success was hardly a surprise, born out of an innate self-assurance.
More Tampa Bay Buccaneers news

"He always wanted to race.
He thought he was the fastest person on the team, knowing he was the slowest.
He was competing in everything, thought he had the best hands, thought he could cover anyone," said Rhodes, who'll be defending Winston on Sunday with the Minnesota Vikings.
"I'm like, 'Bro, you're just an all-around athlete, huh?
Running a 4.8, huh?'"
No, speed is not part of Winston's elite skillset.
His official 40-yard dash time at the NFL combine in 2015 was 4.97 seconds .
Just about everything else is.
With the Vikings uncertain this week about quarterback Sam Bradford's status, having started Case Keenum at Pittsburgh because of an injury to Bradford's left knee, the Buccaneers are clearly Winston's team.
"Jameis is Jameis," Rhodes said.
"He's confident in everything he does."
Winston will face an accomplished defense in Minnesota, with the Pro Bowl cornerback Rhodes one of the standouts.
"His size and speed combination is amazing.
But at the end of the day, just like at Florida State, we're going to go out there and compete," Winston said.
Vikings running back Dalvin Cook, a freshman in Winston's final season with the Seminoles in 2014, recalled a certain read-option play where Winston would hand him the ball and then try to hustle in front to block for him.
"He's just a guy who built up confidence.
He carries himself like a leader, which he is," Cook said.
Here are some other topics pertinent to the game on Sunday:

SOONERS, SEVEN YEARS LATER

Bradford was the first pick by the Rams in the 2010 draft out of Oklahoma.
Sooners defensive tackle Gerald McCoy went to the Bucs two spots later.
Now well-established as one of the league's premier interior defenders, with five Pro Bowl selections, McCoy has waited nearly five years for a crack at a sack or two of Bradford, his fellow Oklahoma City native.
Tampa Bay and St. Louis squared off in 2010 and 2012, splitting those matchups, but Bradford was injured and absent against the Bucs in 2013 and 2014 with St. Louis and 2015 with Philadelphia.
Kellen Clemens, Austin Davis and Mark Sanchez started those games, respectively.
So if Keenum is again asked to play, well, that's not going to change much of the defense's approach.
"Look, they're going to put one football down, and they're going to say, 'Hut,'" McCoy said.
"They might not go on that 'hut.'
They may go on the second 'hut,' but once they hike that ball, the ball's going to the quarterback.
Whoever's holding it, it's my job to get to him.
I don't really care."
TAMPA BAY EQUALS TAKEAWAY

The Buccaneers forced four first-half turnovers and built a 26-0 lead at the break over the Bears last week.
Since the start of last season, their first with former Atlanta coach Mike Smith as defensive coordinator, the Bucs have 33 takeaways.
That's third in the NFL in that span behind Baltimore (38) and Kansas City (35).
"They are some savages, man," wide receiver Mike Evans said.
"I love our defense."
Cornerback Robert McClain returned one of two interceptions of former Buccaneers quarterback Mike Glennon for a touchdown in the opening 29-7 win against Chicago , the league-leading fifth pickoff that the Bucs have scored on since Smith's arrival.
Denver and Kansas City have four apiece.
"It's a mindset, first and foremost," Smith said.
"We talk about having a toolbox in terms of what we want to do with our coverages and how we are attacking the ball and how we are leveraging the football.
We talk about, 'Hey, that ball is ours.
They've got it.
We've got to take it away."
DEFENSE NOT DOMINANT

The Vikings tied for seventh in the NFL last season with 27 forced turnovers, just two fewer than the Buccaneers, but they've gone two games without one this season.
They're also in the bottom third of the league so far in points and yards allowed.
The biggest disappointment, however, has been penalties.
The defense has accounted for 10 of 21 infractions committed by the Vikings, with pass interference calls on Rhodes (22 yards) and Trae Waynes (49 yards) each extending a touchdown drive by the Steelers last week in a 26-9 defeat .
"Those things, they're correctable," coach Mike Zimmer said.
"We've got to be more disciplined with our hands.
We've got to be in a better position."
FILLING IN

The Bucs again will play without running back Doug Martin, who must sit two more games to fulfill a suspension for violating NFL policy on performance-enhancing drugs.
Martin had his first of 11 career 100-yard games on Oct. 25, 2012, at Minnesota.
In his absence, Jacquizz Rodgers carried the ball 19 times for 67 yards and one touchdown against the Bears.
TRIPLE DIGITS

Over the past six weeks of NFL regular-season games, dating to Dec. 11, 2016, Minnesota's Adam Thielen and Tampa Bay's DeSean Jackson are tied for most 100-yard receiving games with three each.
Jackson was with Washington last season.
He's the new speedy complement to the strength and size of leading receiver Mike Evans.
"I have to just be ready for it," Rhodes said.
"If I'm on DeSean, I have to do a lot of hamstring workouts.
If I'm on Mike Evans, I have to get in the weight room."
107

View Gallery





Reinhold Matay-USA TODAY Sports | Reinhold Matay
CHICAGO -- Six years, four months, five children, one boy.
It almost sounds like an official scorer or broadcaster reciting a pitching line, but those figures simply illustrate the particulars for Kansas City Royals right-hander Ian Kennedy, his wife, Allison, and their growing young family.
"There's a lot going on there," Royals manager Ned Yost said.
The Kennedys welcomed their fifth child and first son, Isaac Patrick, on Friday, and the boy's father wasted no time in imparting a lesson on commitment.
Ian Kennedy is scheduled to start for the Royals in Sunday's series finale against the host Chicago White Sox.
He traveled from Kansas City to Chicago on Saturday, Yost said.
Kennedy (4-12, 5.39 ERA) returned to the rotation Tuesday after missing his previous start with fatigue in his throwing shoulder.
He entered the sixth inning with a shutout before the Toronto Blue Jays' Darwin Barney smacked a two-run home run on an 0-2 changeup with none out.
Although Kennedy took the loss for the Royals, Yost still expressed optimism in his five-plus innings of three-hit, two-run, two-strikeout ball.
It was Kennedy's first start without a walk all season.
"He threw very well," Yost said.
"You know, he had rotator cuff fatigue and it dropped his arm slot.
We skipped him one start, it was 11 days, and it got everything back on track.
And now he's been on top of his arm slot, and everything's been good."
Kennedy, who is 2-2 with a 4.63 ERA in eight career starts against the White Sox, will look to keep the Royals afloat in a muddled American League wild-card race.
Kansas City (76-78) rebounded from Friday's frustrating loss in the series opener with an 8-2 victory against Chicago (62-92) on Saturday.
The Royals stand 4 1/2 games back of American League Central rival Minnesota for the second wild-card spot with eight games to play, but also are battling Los Angeles and Texas, among other teams in a jumbled race.
White Sox right-hander Lucas Giolito (2-3, 2.58 ERA) will make his second career start against the Royals.
Giolito took a no-decision in a Sept. 13 start at Kansas City, spacing one run, four hits, three walks and three strikeouts in 6 1/3 innings.
The Royals are no strangers to in-season births in players' families.
In August 2016, left-handed reliever Mike Minor was in Sacramento on a minor league rehab assignment with Triple-A Omaha when his wife prepared to give birth to the couple's second child.
Minor remembers a whirlwind stretch surrounding the joyous news in his native Tennessee.
"My wife went into labor and then they contacted us, contacted the team, they did everything to get me the first flight home, and I went right to the hospital.
I only took maybe a day or two, and then I was back."
Several teammates texted Kennedy on Friday to offer well wishes.
"A lot of guys reached out and just made sure everything went OK," reliever Brandon Maurer said.
PITTSBURGH -- St. Louis, clawing to get into the playoffs and trying to improve to 6-1-1 in its most recent eight series, will turn to John Gant on Sunday.
Gant, a sinkerballer, will be making his first start as a Cardinal player and first in the majors this season when St. Louis (81-73) plays the rubber match of a three-game series against also-ran Pittsburgh (70-85) at PNC Park.
The Pirates did a little spoiling Saturday night with an 11-6 victory, breaking the Cardinals' four-game winning streak and leaving them a half-game behind second-place Milwaukee and five behind the first-place Chicago Cubs in the National League Central.The Cardinals are 1 1/2 games behind Colorado for the final NL wild-card spot.
Sunday will be St. Louis' last road game of the regular season.
Gant (0-0, 3.86 ERA) earned the promotion to this start -- with Jack Flaherty going to the bullpen -- after three solid relief appearances.
"I'm just going to go make the start and do my best," Gant told the St. Louis Post-Dispatch.
"I'm not approaching it any different kind of way.
I'm just going to go play baseball.
"I feel pretty loose.
I feel comfortable going the distance -- whatever that may be."
Wednesday at Cincinnati, he pitched two scoreless innings in his most recent relief appearance.
"The ball's coming out good and I've been making some good pitches," the 25-year-old told the Post-Dispatch.
"It's nice being here in the playoff push, but it's still just baseball," he said.
"I'm here to take some pressure off some of the other guys by picking up some innings and to do whatever I'm asked to do.
I want to contribute any way I can to help this team win and to find a way into the playoffs."
Gant broke into the majors with Atlanta last season before being acquired by the Cardinals in the offseason for left-hander Jaime Garcia.
He was recalled from Triple-A Memphis as part of the general roster expansion Sept. 1.
His last start was Aug. 27 for Memphis, when he allowed three runs in 6 2/3 innings.
Against the Pirates, Gant is 0-0 with a 3.86 ERA in two career relief appearances.
Gant will square off against Pittsburgh right-hander and fellow 25-year-old Jameson Taillon (7-7, 4.73 ERA).
Taillon has had an up-and-down season and ithas beenshowing the later in the season itgets.He is 2-5 with a 6.86 ERA since the All-Star break and hasn't had a win since Aug. 11 at Toronto.
Then, earlier this month, he had his turn in the lineup skipped.
That gave him a boost, even if the results weren't great immediately.
In his first start after the 10-day layoff, Taillon allowed two runs in five-plus innings with six hits, one walk and four strikeouts.
"I actually thought I did pretty well, definitely an encouraging step in the right direction, which is what I'm looking for at the end of the year," Taillon said.
"The season's coming to a close.
I'm just looking to trend in the right direction."
Taillon is 0-1 with a 5.14 ERA in four career starts against St. Louis.
TV: Yahoo

Time: 9:30 a.m.

NFL spectators in London could have plenty to celebrate Sunday.
With Baltimore and Jacksonville playing the first of five games abroad, those at historic Wembley Stadium might be treated to a punting party.
And anyone who's been to an NFL game in London knows the loudest cheers are reserved for kicks.
The Ravens (2-0) and Jaguars (1-1) have punted a combined 20 times this season and could be in for even more given the matchup overseas.
Baltimore has allowed just one touchdown in two victories and leads the league in takeaways (10) and interceptions (eight).
Jacksonville tops the NFL in sacks (11) and surrendered one touchdown in its first six quarters before unraveling at home against Tennessee.
More Jacksonville Jaguars news

So it's no surprise that the Ravens-Jaguars game is the only one on the NFL schedule this week with the over/under for points scored set below 40.
"In this game, you better take advantage of the opportunities when you get them," Jaguars offensive coordinator Nathaniel Hackett said.
Those could be few and far between against Baltimore, which shut out Cincinnati on the road and gave up 10 points to Cleveland.
The Ravens are the only NFL team with at least four interceptions and three sacks in each of their first two games since sacks became an official statistic in 1982.
Of course, they played the Bengals, who fired their offensive coordinator after two games, and then faced a rookie quarterback with the Browns.
Now they get the mistake-prone Jaguars.
Blake Bortles had three turnovers against the Titans, including two interceptions and a fumble.
"It's tough when it seems like the ball starts rolling downhill and just keeps going," said Bortles, who played turnover-free football in the opener.
"It's something I think we've dealt with before and I think we've got to try to stay away from the mindset of, `Here we go again.
This has happened before, this is happening again.'
"I think we've got to find ways to get out of that.
We have to find ways to make plays, to turn that around, to change that momentum and it's tough when you're not creating those big plays."
The Jaguars struggled to create explosive plays last week without go-to receiver Allen Robinson, who is out for the season with a knee injury.
"It restricts what we felt going into the season was a good matchup for us," Jaguars coach Doug Marrone said.
"I mean, A-Rob has shown through the years that he can go one-on-one and jump over people to catch a football."
Baltimore's offense has lacked deep passes, too.
More pressing for the Ravens: They could be down two starters on that side of the ball.
Running back Terrance West (calf) has missed two days of practice and right guard Marshal Yanda is out for the season after fracturing his left ankle.
"You're still going to have to go out and run your offense," quarterback Joe Flacco said.
"We have quick game built in, we have some quick play-actions and all those things we normally do.
But you can't become a team that does one thing and one thing only and expect to be successful over the course of a season.
We still have to play our game and do what we do and just be somewhat conscious of it."
Here are some other things to know about the Ravens and Jaguars:

BACK TO WEMBLEY

The Jaguars are making their fifth trip in as many years to London and believe they should have an advantage in preparing for the cross-Atlantic trip.
Of the 53 players on Jacksonville's roster, only 15 haven't been before.
That includes eight rookies.
"When you're traveling like 10 hours, I don't know if it's ever routine," Jaguars tight end Marcedes Lewis said.
"The travel is always taxing.
You always feel like you're waking up out of surgery when you get there.
"At the end of the day, the team that's the most rested is the team that's going to have the advantage.
If we're going to have any advantage, it's on the way there, not necessarily when you get there."
MR. LONDON

Jaguars receiver Allen Hurns has made the play of the day in each of his last two games at Wembley Stadium.
There was the diving, 31-yard touchdown catch that beat Buffalo 34-31 in 2015 and then a 42-yard catch-and-run that turned out to be the difference in a 30-27 victory against Indianapolis last year.
His efforts even earned him the nickname "Mr.
London."
With another touchdown catch at Wembley, he would Brandon Lloyd as only players in NFL history with three there.
STOPPING SUGGS

Ravens linebacker Terrell Suggs has three of team's eight sacks in 2017.
He has 6 sacks in six career games against Jacksonville.
"I'm waiting for him to retire," Marrone quipped.
"You know what I'm saying?
Every time we play against him, he's always had key plays, he's always wreaked havoc."
124

View Gallery





Logan Bowles-USA TODAY Sports | Logan Bowles
TEMPE, Ariz. -- Oregon didn't look quite ready for prime time, and the Arizona State Sun Devils have a big win they sorely needed.
Freshman Brandon Ruiz kicked a 41-yard field goal with 2:33 to play and Arizona State held on to upset No.
24 Oregon 37-35 on Saturday night in the Pac-12 opener for both teams.
"This one really felt good just because you go after two losses and your mindset is a little like `We just need to get one, get this rolling,'" quarterback Manny Wilkins said.
"That's why I think this one felt really good because, just to see how well we practiced throughout the week, guys were out there at practice taking every rep with 100 percent effort and it showed here on Saturday night."
The win ended the Sun Devils' 10-game losing streak to the Ducks and more than eased the pain that came with nonconference losses to San Diego State and Texas Tech.
"We play really well together," Wilkins said, "and when we're clicking, it looks beautiful.
It's a thing of art."
Wilkins completed 24 of 39 passes for 347 yards and a touchdown and ran for two more scores as Arizona State beat the Ducks for the first time since 2004.
N'Keal Harry caught seven passes for a career-best 170 yards and a score.
"That one felt pretty good," Sun Devils coach Todd Graham said.
"(Oregon is) the No.
1 scoring team in the country and that was a very impressive performance."
The Ducks' Justin Herbert completed 19 of 35 for 281 yards and three scores.
It was the first loss at Oregon for new coach Willie Taggart.
"It was a lack of execution, by everybody," he said.
"Coaches, myself included, we didn't do a good job.
In the first half, hey took it to us offensively, instead of us taking it to them."
Oregon (3-1), a 13-point favorite going into the game, trailed throughout by as many as 17 points until Herbert threw 51 yards to Jacob Breeland and scored on a 5-yard quarterback draw to put the Ducks up 35-34 with 6:41 to play.
But the Sun Devils responded.
Arizona State (2-2) converted a crucial third-and-6 play on a 10-yard pass from Wilkins to Jalen Harvey to get Arizona State into range for the winning field goal.
The Ducks drove past midfield but, on fourth down, Herbert's scramble fell just shy of a first down.
Oregon had one more chance after forcing Arizona State to punt with 50 seconds to play but never got out of its own territory.
Herbert threw touchdown passes of 20 yards to Johnny Johnson III and 22 to Tony Brooks-James to cut the Arizona State lead to 31-28 with 4:33 still left in the third quarter.
The Sun Devils scored touchdowns on their first two possessions and had a comfortable 17-7 lead nearing the end of the first half.
But with 37 seconds to play, Ryan Newsome muffed an Oregon punt and the Ducks' La'Mar Winston jumped on the ball at the Arizona State 12-yard line.
Royce Freeman swept around left end for a touchdown, his school-record 54th, on the next play and the Ducks were down just 17-14 at halftime.
The teams traded touchdowns to start before the Sun Devils grinded out 75 yards in 15 plays to go up 14-7 on Wilkins' 3-yard touchdown pass to Harry.
Arizona State surprised the Ducks with an onside kick and drove downfield for Ruiz's 29-yard field goal that boosted the Sun Devils' lead to 17-7.
Arizona State scored touchdowns on its first two possessions of the second half.
Oregon was 1 for 11 on third downs and 0 for 2 on fourth.
"The penalties, the dropped balls," Taggart said.
"It's hard to get in a rhythm, it's hard to go fast."
THE TAKEAWAY

A big win over a ranked team will ease the pressure on Graham, who's coming off two straight losing seasons.
UP NEXT

The Sun Devils hit the road for their first Pac-12 game away from home Saturday at Stanford.
GLENDALE, Ariz. -- Logan Couture and Tim Heed scored in the shootout to lift the San Jose Sharks to 5-4 win over the Arizona Coyotes on Saturday.
Heed, the 10th shooter, scored the game-winner.
Max Domi scored Arizona's goal in the tiebreaker.
Mikkel Boedker scored twice in the first period for San Jose, and Barclay Goodrow and Kevin Labanc scored in the second.
Nick Cousins had two goals for Arizona, and Derek Stepan and Luke Schenn also scored.
Troy Grosenick made 24 saves as he played the entire game in goal for the Sharks.
Coyotes goaltender Antti Raanta made 28 saves in the first two periods before being replaced by Marek Langhamer, who stopped all 12 shots he faced in the third and overtime session.
WACO, Texas (AP) -- Oklahoma quarterback Baker Mayfield had a bit more respect for Baylor after the game.
He also had another victory.
After being caught on video before the game with some smack talk directed at winless Baylor , Mayfield threw three touchdowns and the third-ranked Sooners overcame the feisty Bears 49-41 Saturday night to stretch the nation's longest winning streak to 14 games.
"You don't realize that some teams and guys, when they get their backs up against the wall, that's when they play their best," Mayfield said.
"I'd compare it to how we went into Ohio State week.
Everybody was picking them, and nobody really cared about us.
It's the same feeling.
You've got to expect that, and we've got to be more consistent."
Asked if he respected the Bears afterward, Mayfield responded, "Absolutely."
Mayfield's last TD pass was the go-ahead score, and came on the next snap after the quarterback's unsportsmanlike conduct penalty.
He completed 13 of 19 passes for 283 yards, including TDs on his first two drives, as the Sooners piled up 634 total yards.
Abdul Adams had a 99-yard touchdown for the Sooners (4-0, 1-0 Big 12), his school-record run coming after a botched kickoff return.
29

View Gallery





Jerome Miron-USA TODAY Sports | Jerome Miron

Baylor (0-4, 0-1) led 31-28 after Connor Martin's 46-yard field goal late in the third quarter but Oklahoma answered.
"You've got to have perseverance.
You cannot expect that every one will be a blowout," Sooners coach Lincoln Riley said.
"You've got to hang in there and keep swinging.
Our guys do that."
Adams, who finished with 11 carries for 164 yards, picked up 33 yards on three consecutive runs before the penalty was announced against Mayfield.
It wasn't clear what the quarterback did, and he didn't really say afterward, but on the next play he found Jeff Badet for a 48-yard touchdown.
Trey Sermon ran 12 times for 148 yards and two touchdowns, the freshman getting all of that in the fourth quarter.
"It was the flow of the game," Riley said.
"We felt like it was time to turn him loose."
Sermon's first carries came after the Bears' first three-and-out to start the fourth quarter.
He scored on a 34-yard run when he was hit near the 20 and kept his balance.
He had a 60-yard run on the next Sooners possession before his 9-yard TD made it 49-31.
Denzel Mims' third TD catch, an acrobatic grab in the back of the end zone, got Baylor within 49-41 with 1:41 left.
The Bears then recovered an onside kick but Zach Smith was sacked and fumbled after two incompletions.
Smith threw for 463 yards with four TDs.
"As I told our team, I'm proud of our team, but it doesn't mean I'm not angry about the game," new Baylor coach Matt Rhule said.
"We didn't play above our capabilities.
We have not played to our capabilities yet."
HIGHLIGHT CATCHES

Mims, who had 11 catches for 192 yards, had another acrobatic catch in the fourth quarter.
That one was reviewed on replay like the touchdown.
On his 25-yard grab along the sideline, he and the defender tipped the ball before Mims pulled it in.
POLL IMPLICATIONS

Oklahoma certainly won't move up after No.
1 Alabama and No.
2 Clemson both had convincing victories.
The question becomes will the Sooners slip again after needing a second-half comeback as a more than four-touchdown favorite.
They dropped a spot last week after a 56-14 win over Tulane.
THE TAKEAWAY

Oklahoma: The Sooners may have struggled, but they again found a way to win -- now 371 days since their last loss, and 714 days since they last lost a conference game.
Their 17 consecutive Big 12 wins matches the longest in school history.
They have also won 13 consecutive true road games, the nation's longest active streak.
Baylor: While this game turned into a disappointing loss, the growth by the Bears in four games under Rhule is evident.
There are still mistakes, such as having 12 men on the field or having to use timeouts at inopportune times.
But hanging in with the Big 12's powerhouse team, and even leading after halftime, is a boost after earlier home losses to two teams that had never before beaten a Power Five opponent.
"It feels good, but then it also feels kind of sad," Mims said.
"It feels good that we got a whole lot better and we came to compete and we stuck in with OU.
But it still feels sad that we lost."
UP NEXT

Oklahoma: The Sooners have an open date next weekend before their Big 12 home opener Oct. 7 against Iowa State.
Baylor: The Bears, 0-4 for the first time since 1999, play at Kansas State next Saturday.
PHOENIX (AP) -- Giancarlo Stanton extended his club record with his 57th home run and set a team mark with his 125th RBI, lifting the Miami Marlins over the Arizona Diamondbacks 12-6 on Saturday night.
Arizona could have clinched a playoff spot with a win, but will have to wait another day at least.
The Diamondbacks can lock up an NL wild card on Sunday with a win or losses by Milwaukee and St. Louis.
Arizona lost for the fourth time in six games, having given up 30 runs in the last three games.
Justin Bour added two run-scoring singles and a late two-run home run for Miami, which has won four of five.
The Marlins scored five runs -- taking advantage of a pair of errors by Arizona starter Taijuan Walker (9-9) -- in the third to take a 5-1 lead.
Miami chased Walker after 3 2/3 innings, getting seven runs and six hits off him.
Walker struck out six, walked three, hit a batter and had a wild pitch.
Miami starter Dillon Peters, in fifth career start, went four innings, allowing five runs, six hits and three walks.
Brian Ellington (1-1) earned the win after pitching the fifth and sixth, allowing just J.D.
Martinez's 43rd home run of the season.
Miguel Rojas led off Miami's third inning with a double down the right-field line, and then Walker couldn't field Peters' sacrifice bunt to the third base side of the mound.
Dee Gordon followed with a tapper on the first-base side that Walker also couldn't handle, allowing Rojas to score from third and Peters to go to second.
Stanton doubled to left, scoring Peters and Gordon, and Bour later singled in another run.
Paul Goldschmidt hit his 36th home run of the season, a three-run shot to left in the third to cut the lead to 5-4.
He has 120 RBIs.
Brandon Drury added his 13th home run of the season.
UP NEXT

Arizona and Miami finish their weekend series on Sunday with RHP Dan Straily (10-9, 4.17) scheduled to face Patrick Corbin (14-13, 4.14).
LEXINGTON, Ky. (AP) -- Freddie Swain caught a 5-yard touchdown pass from backup quarterback Luke Del Rio with 43 seconds remaining to cap No.
20 Florida's rally from a 13-point, fourth-quarter deficit that beat Kentucky 28-27 on Saturday night.
The Gators extended their winning streak over the Wildcats to 31 games, the nation's longest streak in FBS, and took early control of the Southeastern Conference's Eastern Division.
It came a week after a last-second, 63-yard Hail Mary TD pass earned a 26-20 victory over Tennessee, and this comeback required everything they had after trailing most of the night.
"Well, that was fun," Florida coach Jim McElwain said of his team's straight escape.
"You could feel it on the sideline that they didn't have any quit in them."
Down 27-14 in the fourth quarter, Florida (2-1, 2-0) got within a touchdown on Brandon Powell's 6-yard TD run with 7:58 left.
Del Rio then marched the Gators 58 yards for the winning score to stun a blue-clad sellout crowd of 61,000 hungry to see Kentucky end a generation of frustration against the Gators.
Kentucky's last chance to win ended when Austin MacGinnis' 57-yard field goal fell short as time expired.
Del Rio, who relieved Feleipe Franks in the second half, completed 9 of 14 passes for 74 yards.
Kadarius Toney rushed for a 36-yard TD and Tyrie Cleveland caught a 45-yard TD pass from Franks for a 14-all tie at halftime.
THE TAKEAWAY

Florida: The Gators played catch-up all night and their perseverance once again paid off in the end thanks to Del Rio, who was the QB in last year's 45-7 rout of Kentucky in Gainesville.
Del Rio threw an interception but had the resolve to lead a fourth-quarter rally and find receivers.
They ended up outgaining the Wildcats 395-340 and dealt another painful loss to Kentucky.
Kentucky: In control most of the game and holding what they thought was a comfortable lead, the Wildcats couldn't close the deal again.
With the loss went a chance to prove they could win a marquee game and reach a lofty status in the SEC.
Kentucky also wasted a three-touchdown performance from quarterback Stephen Johnson and field goals of 42 and 50 yards from Austin MacGinnis.
A late penalty after the Wildcats neared field goal range left MacGinnis with a long attempt that fell in the end zone.
POLL IMPLICATIONS

Florida could move up a spot with the road win.
Kentucky: The Wildcats received 11 votes last week but let a great chance to re-enter the Top 25 for the first time since November 2007 slip away.
UP NEXT

Florida: Hosts Vanderbilt on Sept. 30.
Kentucky: Hosts Eastern Michigan on Sept. 30.
BALTIMORE (AP) -- Lucas Duda hit a go-ahead, three-run homer to back Jake Odorizzi, and the Tampa Bay Rays beat Baltimore 9-6 on Saturday night to eliminate the Orioles from postseason contention.
Duda's third-inning homer, his 30th overall and 13th since the Rays acquired him from the New York Mets, helped Tampa Bay build a 9-1 lead.
Baltimore (74-82), which closed with five runs in the ninth inning, is assured of finishing with a losing record for the first time since 2011.
The Orioles are 6-17 following a seven-game winning streak.
Tampa Bay (76-79) remained five games behind Minnesota for the second AL wild card with seven games remaining.
Logan Morrison hit his 37th homer for the Rays during a four-run ninth.
In a sloppy game, Tampa Bay made three errors and Baltimore two.
Odorizzi (10-8) allowed an unearned run and three hits in six innings and struck out nine, improving to 4-1 in his last five starts.
With the tying run at the plate, Alex Colome retired Trey Mancini on a game-ending groundout for his major league-leading 46th save in 52 chances.
Jeremy Hellickson (2-6 with the Orioles and 8-11 overall) gave up three runs and four hits over six innings and dropped to 0-4 in his last five starts.
Hellickson spent 2010-14 with the Rays and started against his former team for the first time.
A bad flip by Duda to Odorizzi covering first on Adam Jones' first-inning infield single allowed Schoop to score from second base on the error.
Duda was in a 1-for -- 23 slide when he fouled off four straight pitches, then homered on the ninth pitch for a 3-1 lead in the third.
Hellickson has given up 13 homers in 51 2/3 innings with the Orioles.
TRAINER'S ROOM

Orioles: Manager Buck Showalter said closer Zach Britton, who had a stem-cell injection into his ailing left knee on Friday, still i8s sore.
"I think he's got one more day before that starts going in the other direction," Showalter said.
UP NEXT

RHP Chris Archer (9-11, 4.02), who is 1-1 with a 6.39 ERA in two starts against Baltimore this season, starts for the Rays on Sunday.
RHP Dylan Bundy (13-9, 4.24), who starts for the Orioles, is 1-1 with a 5.19 ERA in three starts versus Tampa Bay this season.
Matt Prater second ever to make 10 field goals of 55 yards or more Detroit's Matt Prater has quietly entered the conversation around the best long-distance kickers in NFL history.
Biggest NFL injuries of Week 3 Panthers wide receiver Kelvin Benjamin is among a handful of players that left Sunday's action early.
Get caught up on all the other big names who got banged up this week.
Eight Lions kneel during anthem; Martha Ford joins show of support Lions owner Martha Ford stood with players in a show of support during the national anthem as eight members of the team took a knee.
Owner Arthur Blank stands arm-in-arm with Falcons during anthem The Falcons' owner said he wanted to support players' right to protest and also show his disagreement with President Trump's stance.
Jets acting owner Christopher Johnson stands with players The entire Jets team -- players, coaches and staff members -- linked arms for the anthem Sunday before their game against the Dolphins.
7 Georgia and No.
9 TCU jumped into the top 10 of The Associated Press college football poll for the first time this season and Florida State dropped all the way out of the rankings for the first time since 2011 after starting 0-2.
Alabama remained No.
1 and won back some of the support it lost last week to No.
2 Clemson.
The Crimson Tide received 52 first-place votes Sunday, up seven from last week, after beating Vanderbilt 59-0 on Saturday.
Clemson received eight first-place votes, down seven from last week, after taking more than three quarters to pull away from Boston College.
3 Oklahoma got the remaining first-place vote.
Penn State held at No.
Southern California was No.
5, followed by Pac-12 rival Washington.
Georgia followed Michigan, and TCU and Wisconsin rounded out the top 10.
Both Baltimore and Jacksonville's sidelines reflect a form of protest during the U.S. national anthem before their game at Wembley Stadium in London.
(0:15)

NFL players across the league knelt, locked arms and even refused to come out of the locker room during the national anthem Sunday.
They were joined by coaches and even owners.
It is believed to be in response to President Donald Trump's comments and tweets this week on protests during the anthem.
It started early Sunday morning in London, as more than a dozen Baltimore Ravens and Jacksonville Jaguars players knelt during the U.S. national anthem at Wembley Stadium.
The kneeling players then stood for the singing of the U.K. national anthem.
Ravens coach John Harbaugh, Jaguars coach Doug Marrone and Jaguars owner Shad Khan stood with the players during the anthem.
Ravens players never protested during the national anthem before Sunday's game against the Jaguars.
AP Photo/Matt Dunham

Trump on Friday night criticized NFL players who lodge protests during the national anthem.
Speaking at a political rally in Huntsville, Alabama, Trump said: "Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now.
He's fired!
He's fired!"
Editor's Picks DE Wolfe on protests: Worse places than U.S. Broncos defensive end Derek Wolfe told ESPN's Josina Anderson that he believes it's "disrespectful" to Americans who have lost their lives in battle to protest during the national anthem.
Steelers remain in locker room during anthem The Steelers remained in the locker room during the national anthem before their game against the Bears in a showing of solidarity.
NFLPA denies Goodell, Smith discussed Trump The NFLPA denied Sunday that NFL commissioner Roger Goodell and union chief DeMaurice Smith discussed how to handle President Trump's statements about player protests.
2 Related

There was scattered booing by fans in all stadiums as protests were made Sunday.
In Chicago, as the anthem began in Soldier Field, several Pittsburgh Steelers coaches were on the sideline, including coach Mike Tomlin, while the players were not present as they stayed in the locker room.
The Steelers' players took the field within a few seconds of the anthem's conclusion, just after the fireworks launch, with quarterback Ben Roethlisberger one of the first out of the tunnel.
Left tackle Alejandro Villanueva, an Army Ranger who served in Afghanistan, was seen on the CBS broadcast at the edge of the tunnel during the anthem, hand over heart.
NFL owners were among those across the league who responded this weekend to President Trump's comments and tweets.
New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft on Sunday became the first NFL owner who made a donation to Trump's campaign to speak out.
"I am deeply disappointed by the tone of the comments made by the President on Friday," Kraft said.
"I am proud to be associated with so many players who make such tremendous contributions in positively impacting our communities.
Their efforts, both on and off the field, help bring people together and make our community stronger."
During the playing of the national anthem prior to the Patriots' game against the Houston Texans, Tom Brady stood and locked arms while 20 or so of his teammates kneeled.
All of the Texans stood and locked arms.
Philadelphia Eagles owner Jeffrey Lurie, executives and players locked arms with servicemen and women and police officers during the playing of the anthem, and safety Malcolm Jenkins -- who has been demonstrating for social justice since Week 2 of last season -- continued to raise his first above his head.
Defensive end Chris Long has placed an arm around Jenkins as a sign of support since the events in his hometown of Charlottesville, Virginia in August.
He was joined by several teammates surrounding Jenkins this week.
Wide receivers Torrey Smith and Marcus Johnson also raised their fist.
Dolphins owner Stephen Ross, Falcons owner Arthur Blank and Vikings owners Zygi and Mark Wilf also locked arms with their teams on the field while the anthem was played.
Blank said he stood on the sideline not only to show support for the players and coaches, but also to back his public statement denouncing President Trump's criticism of players protesting during the anthem.
Across the field, Tampa Bay Buccaneers players DeSean Jackson and Mike Evans knelt during the anthem.
In Detroit, anthem singer Rico Lavelle, at the conclusion of the song, took a knee and raised his fist.
Detroit Lions owner Martha Ford and her three daughters, who are usually long gone from the field by the time player introductions begin, remained on the sideline as Detroit's team was introduced and stood next to Jim Caldwell with linked arms.
Fans booed the Lions as they protested, which included eight players linking arms while kneeling.
The crowd in Indianapolis also booed loudly as the Colts locked arms and some knelt.
About 20 Cleveland Browns players -- all African-American -- knelt during the anthem.
Browns running back Duke Johnson, in a group standing behind those who knelt -- apparently in support -- waved the crowd on.
The entire Buffalo Bills sideline took the unusual step of walking about 10 yards toward the middle of the field for the national anthem.
Several players then kneeled for the national anthem.
More than 30 players from the Denver Broncos knelt during the anthem, including members of the practice squad.
Every New York Jets player, coach and staff member linked arms during the national anthem.
Acting owner Christopher Johnson, the younger brother of owner Woody Johnson, was among them.
For the first time, the New York Giants had players -- Damon Harrison, Olivier Vernon and Landon Collins -- kneel during the anthem.
Other players stood with arms locked.
New Orleans Saints running backs Adrian Peterson, Mark Ingram and Alvin Kamara were among a group of 10 players who sat on the bench during the national anthem for the first time Sunday at Carolina.
No Saints had sat or knelt during the anthem before -- though they did organize a team-wide display of unity and hand-holding with the rival Falcons after the anthem on a Monday Night Football game last year.
The Carolina Panthers stood for the anthem, as they have since the season began.
Julius Peppers was not on the field at the time, though it was unclear as to why.
In addition, the NFL will re-air a 60-second spot -- called "Inside These Lines" -- during Sunday Night Football that also appeared during Super Bowl LI.
The NFL describes it as a video that "demonstrates the power of football to bring people together."
The Sunday NFL Countdown crew discusses the Steelers' decision to stay in the locker room during the national anthem.
(1:31)

CHICAGO -- In a sign of solidarity, the Pittsburgh Steelers stayed in the locker room during the national anthem before their 1 p.m.
ET kickoff with the Chicago Bears.
Editor's Picks Locked arms, kneeling dominate NFL anthems It started early Sunday in London and continued throughout the NFL as players, coaches and even owners locked arms or kneeled during the national anthem.
DE Wolfe on protests: Worse places than U.S. Broncos defensive end Derek Wolfe told ESPN's Josina Anderson that he believes it's "disrespectful" to Americans who have lost their lives in battle to protest during the national anthem.
1 Related

As the anthem began in Soldier Field, several Steelers coaches were on the sideline, including head coach Mike Tomlin, while the players were not present.
Offensive coordinator Todd Haley, offensive line coach Mike Munchak and running backs coach James Saxon also were spotted.
Players took the field within a few seconds of the anthem's end, just after fireworks launched, with quarterback Ben Roethlisberger one of the first players out of the tunnel.
Left tackle Alejandro Villanueva, an Army Ranger who served in Afghanistan, was seen on the CBS broadcast at the edge of the tunnel during the anthem, hand over heart.
"We're not going to play politics," Tomlin told CBS' Jamie Erdahl before the game.
"We're football players, we're football coaches.
We're not participating in the anthem today -- not to be disrespectful to the anthem, but to remove ourselves from the circumstance.
"People shouldn't have to choose.
If a guy wants to go about his normal business and participate in the anthem, he shouldn't be forced to choose sides.
If a guy feels the need to do something, he shouldn't be separated from his teammate who chooses not to."
The Steelers did not protest the anthem last year and had stayed relatively neutral on the national discussion, but President Donald Trump's verbal attack on NFL players who protest appears to have changed things.
Team president Art Rooney II said in a statement that he supported the NFL's statement on the matter but had nothing to add.
Several Steelers leaders, including defensive end Cameron Heyward, linebacker James Harrison and others, were involved in the discussion about Sunday's protest, one team source said.
Those discussions took hold Saturday as the team traveled to Chicago and got situated at the team hotel.
The decision was collaborative; the team wanted to show unity without being demonstrative.
Players are expected to formally call the matter a "team decision" regarding who was behind the call and who might not agree, a team source said.
Players and team officials were not made available before the game.
Josina Anderson reports on Broncos DE Derek Wolfe's stance that while players have a right to protest, he believes they should stand for the national anthem.
(1:07)

ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. -- Denver Broncos defensive end Derek Wolfe said Sunday he believes players should stand for the national anthem but that protests are a "right'' and "to each their own.''
Editor's Picks Steelers remain in locker room during anthem The Steelers remained in the locker room during the national anthem before their game against the Bears in a showing of solidarity.
Locked arms, kneeling dominate NFL anthems It started early Sunday in London and continued throughout the NFL as players, coaches and even owners locked arms or kneeled during the national anthem.
1 Related

Wolfe sent a statement to ESPN's Josina Anderson that outlined why he stands for the anthem and why he believes others should as well.
But Wolfe also addressed those who have kneeled or stood during the anthem and may in the future.
Wolfe's statement comes after comments during a weekend rally in Alabama from President Donald Trump that players who refuse to stand for the national anthem should be "fired" by NFL owners.
The comments have drawn widespread reaction from NFL owners and players as well as commissioner Roger Goodell and former commissioner Paul Tagliabue.
Wolfe's statement:

Derek Wolfe says he stands for the anthem "because I respect the men who died in real battles so I have the freedom to battle on the field."
Ron Chenoy/USA TODAY Sports

"I stand because I respect the men who died in real battles so I have the freedom to battle on the field.
Paying tribute to the men and women who have given their lives for our freedom is why I stand.
But everyone these days likes to find a reason to protest and that's their right.
It's America and you are free to speak your mind.
I just feel it's disrespectful to the ones who sacrificed their lives and it's the wrong platform.
But like I said to each their own it's AMERICA!
The greatest country in the world and if you don't think we are the greatest country in the world and you reside here, then why do you stay?
A lot worse places in the world to call home.
Proud to be an American.''
Wolfe has previously said he supported people's right to protest, including when linebacker Brandon Marshall knelt during the national anthem before eight games last season in part to protest the use of force by police.
Wolfe also has consistently said he personally believes everyone should stand for the anthem.
Former NFL wide receiver Anquan Boldin reacts to President Trump's comments that NFL owners should fire players who protest during the national anthem.
(0:47)

Boldin: Players are trying to bring people together with protests (0:47)

The NFL Players Association denied Sunday that NFL commissioner Roger Goodell and union chief DeMaurice Smith discussed how to handle President Donald Trump's statements about player protests.
Editor's Picks Locked arms, kneeling dominate NFL anthems It started early Sunday in London and continued throughout the NFL as players, coaches and even owners locked arms or kneeled during the national anthem.
Owners respond to Trump's player protest talk Reaction to President Trump's comments was widespread, with several team owners issuing statements and many players opining on social media on Saturday.
NFL executives, players respond to President on social media NFL players register their feelings on social media regarding the comments of President Donald Trump on players who kneel during the national anthem.
2 Related

A league source said that Goodell and Smith spent part of Saturday discussing how to best respond to the president's position that players who protest during the anthem should be fired.
But Sunday afternoon, the NFLPA issued a statement, saying the two men had not spoken.
"There were no communications between DeMaurice and Roger about the President's comments and certainly no discussions about their respective statements," the NFLPA said.
"We reached out to the League office to give them a chance to correct the record as well before my clarification now.
They do plan to talk in the near future."
The same NFL source also said Goodell spoke to players such as Philadelphia Eagles safety Malcolm Jenkins, a leader among players seeking change through social activism.
Trump on Friday night criticized NFL players who lodge protests during the national anthem.
Speaking at a political rally in Huntsville, Alabama, Trump said: "Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now.
He's fired!
He's fired!"
Goodell and Smith, along with several owners and players, responded throughout the weekend, releasing statements or expressing their thoughts via social media.
In a statement Saturday morning, Goodell said the NFL is at its best "when we help create a sense of unity in our country and our culture."
"Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL, our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities," Goodell said, in part, referencing Trump.
The NFLPA also released a statement Saturday morning, saying that it makes "no apologies" for protecting the rights of its members, which include freedom of speech.
Former NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue, a guest of Carolina Panthers owner Jerry Richardson on Sunday, called Trump's tweets "insulting and disgraceful."
"For me, to single out any particular group of players and call them S.O.B.
's, to me that's insulting and disgraceful,'' Tagliabue said.
"The players should get credit for what they do.
And when it comes to speech, they are entitled to speech.
We're entitled to listen.
We're entitled to disagree or agree for that matter.
"But we're not entitled to shut anybody's speech down.
Sometimes you don't like what you hear.
That's true in life in lots of context, but you can't be disgraceful when you're doing it.''
Trump resumed tweeting about NFL players and their protests on Sunday morning, this time appealing to fans.
If NFL fans refuse to go to games until players stop disrespecting our Flag & Country, you will see change take place fast.
Fire or suspend!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 24, 2017

ESPN's David Newton contributed to this report.
The Stanley Cup champion Pittsburgh Penguins will visit the White House this year, the team said in a statement on Sunday.
The Penguins said they "respect the institution of the Office of the President."
"Any agreement or disagreement with a president's politics, policies or agenda can be expressed in other ways," the statement read.
"However, we very much respect the rights of other individuals and groups to express themselves as they see fit."
On Saturday, Donald Trump tweeted that the 2017 NBA champion Golden State Warriors were not welcome to celebrate at the White House because star player "Stephen Curry is hesitating."
The Super Bowl champion New England Patriots were the first pro team to visit the White House in the Trump administration.
The Penguins won the Stanley Cup in 2017, their third in the past decade.
They have previously visited the White House during the presidencies of George H.W.
Bush and Barack Obama.
A statement from Chiefs chairman Clark Hunt: "We are blessed in the National Football League to work with an outstanding group of players who, through their thoughtfulness and generosity, are deeply engaged in their communities.
I believe in honoring the American flag and supporting all of those whose sacrifices protect the many freedoms we have in this country, including the right to have differences of opinion.
Sports have long been a unifying force  especially in challenging times  and hatred and division have no place in our game.
As a nation, we face serious challenges, and I believe as Americans, each of us has a responsibility to engage one another with empathy and humility to gain a better understanding of ways we can work together to solve these difficult issues.
Adam Teicher, ESPN Staff Writer
President Donald Trump on Friday criticized NFL players who lodge pregame protests, saying in a speech in Alabama that he wished those players would be released.
He also encouraged fans who are offended to walk out of stadiums.
Several players and coaches reacted strongly to Trump on social media, and in terms of protests, the NFL is expecting a "mixed bag today, on a team-by-team basis," a senior NFL official told ESPN's Sal Paolantonio on Sunday.
Former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick started the pregame protest of racial oppression and inequality in the United States last season by sitting down during the national anthem before a preseason game, then kneeling during the anthem in Week 1 and throughout the season.
Previous protests this season: Week 2 | Week 1 | Preseason

Here are the players who protested in Week 3 (most recent updates first):

New England Patriots: Tom Brady stood, hand over chest, with his other arm locked with receiver Phillip Dorsett, Matthew Slater, David Harris and others before the Patriots' game against the Texans.
Meanwhile, about 20 players kneeled during the national anthem.
Booing could be heard from fans in the stands.
-- Mike Reiss

About 20 Patriots players kneeled during the national anthem in Week 3, while Tom Brady was among the players who locked arms with teammates.
AP Photo/Steven Senne

Miami Dolphins: The Dolphins locked arm in arm as a team, including owner Stephen Ross, before Sunday's game against the Jets.
The Dolphins' owner stood between safety Reshad Jones and center Mike Pouncey near the 50-yard line.
Four players also took a knee for the national anthem.
Those players were receiver Kenny Stills, left tackle Laremy Tunsil, safety Maurice Smith and tight end Julius Thomas.
Several Dolphins players wore black "#ImWithKap" T-shirts during warm-ups.
-- James Walker

Dolphins CB Byron Maxwell is among the first players on the field for warmups.
Miami's secondary must cover better, including Maxwell.
James Walker, ESPN Staff Writer

Detroit Lions: Lions owner Martha Ford and her three daughters, who are usually long gone from the field by the time player introductions begin, remained on the sideline as Detroits team was introduced and stood next to Jim Caldwell with linked arms.
Fans booed the Lions as they protested.
Eight players, including Ameer Abdullah, Tahir Whitehead and most of the defensive line, kneeled and linked arms.
Eric Ebron stood alone, away from his teammates, in the back.
He was the only Lions player not to be part of that protest.
Anthem singer Rico Lavelle, at the conclusion of the anthem, took a knee and raised his fist.
-- Michael Rothstein

New Orleans Saints: Running backs Adrian Peterson, Mark Ingram and Alvin Kamara were among a group of 10 players who sat on the bench during the national anthem for the first time Sunday at Carolina.
Defensive linemen Cameron Jordan, Sheldon Rankins and Alex Okafor, safeties Kenny Vaccaro, Rafael Bush and Chris Banjo and receiver Brandon Coleman also sat.
Punter Thomas Morstead, cornerback Marshon Lattimore, linebacker Craig Robertson and tight end Coby Fleener stood next to the sitting players, with their arms on players shoulders.
No Saints had sat or knelt during the anthem before  though they did organize a team-wide display of unity and hand-holding with the Falcons after the anthem on a Monday Night Football game last season.
Quarterback Drew Brees came out strongly last year saying he disagreed with Colin Kaepernicks form of protest, though he didnt disagree with his message.
-- Mike Triplett

Denver Broncos: Thirty-two Broncos players knelt during the national anthem before Sunday's game against the Bills, including practice-squad players.
The group included linebacker Von Miller and wide receiver Demaryius Thomas -- both team captains.
Tight end Virgil Green and linebacker Shaquil Barrett both stood and raised a fist.
-- Jeff Legwold

New York Giants: Giants players stood with their arms locked before the matchup with the Eagles, but for the first time they had players kneel for the anthem.
Damon Harrison, Olivier Vernon and Landon Collins kneeled.
-- Jordan Raanan

Pittsburgh Steelers: As the anthem began in Soldier Field, several Steelers coaches were on the sideline, including Mike Tomlin, while the players remained in the locker room.
Offensive coordinator Todd Haley, offensive line coach Mike Munchak and running backs coach James Saxon also were spotted.
Players took the field within a few seconds of the anthems conclusion, just after the fireworks launch, with quarterback Ben Roethlisberger one of the first out of the tunnel.
Left tackle Alejandro Villanueva, an Army Ranger who served in Afghanistan, was seen on the CBS broadcast at the edge of the tunnel during the anthem, hand over heart.
-- Jeremy Fowler

As anthem begins in Soldier Field, Steelers sideline empty save coaches, including Mike Tomlin.
Jeremy Fowler, ESPN Staff Writer

Philadelphia Eagles: Eagles owner Jeffrey Lurie, executives and players locked arms with servicemen and women and police officers during the playing of the national anthem prior to Sunday's home opener against the Giants.
Safety Malcolm Jenkins has been demonstrating for social justice since Week 2 of last season, and he continued to raise his first above his head.
Defensive end Chris Long has placed an arm around Jenkins as a sign of support since the events in his hometown of Charlottesville, Virginia, in August.
He was joined by several teammates surrounding Jenkins this week.
Wide receivers Torrey Smith and Marcus Johnson also raised their fist.
Linebacker Mychal Kendricks stood off to the side and appeared to be the only Eagles player not participating in the demonstration.
-- Tim McManus

Atlanta Falcons: Falcons owner Arthur Blank stood on the sideline with arms locked along with wide receiver Julio Jones and running back Devonta Freeman during Sunday's national anthem before the game against the Lions.
The entire Falcons team locked arms during the anthem, with defensive linemen Grady Jarrett and Dontari Poe the only two players to take a knee.
Defensive end Adrian Clayborn put his hand on Poe's shoulder as Poe was on a knee.
-- Vaughn McClure

Cleveland Browns: About 20 Browns players knelt during the national anthem at Indianapolis.
The crowd booed loudly, and running back Duke Johnson, in a group standing behind those who knelt with a hand on a shoulder of kneeling teammate -- apparently in support -- waved the crowd on.
All Browns players locked arms, those standing and those kneeling.
-- Pat McManamon

Fans booed loudly when several Browns players kneeled during the national anthem in Week 3.
Photo by Thomas J. Russo/USA TODAY Sports

Chicago Bears: The Bears did not kneel during the anthem before Sunday's game against the Steelers, but many players locked arms.
Quarterback Mike Glennon placed his hand on his heart as he linked arms with rookie safety Eddie Jackson and tight end Dion Sims.
-- Jeff Dickerson

Tampa Bay Buccaneers: Wide receivers Mike Evans and DeSean Jackson became the first two Bucs players this season to protest during the national anthem.
Both kneeled along the sideline while placing their right hands over their hearts, with a large number of teammates standing and linking arms, before Sunday's game against the Vikings.
-- Jenna Laine

Indianapolis Colts: The Colts locked arms during the national anthem before the game against the Browns.
Several players, including receiver Matt Hazel, linebacker Jabaal Sheard, safeties Malik Hooker and Darius Butler, cornerback Rashaan Melvin, linebacker Jon Bostic, linebacker Tarell Basham and defensive lineman Al Woods, took a knee during the anthem.
This is the first time since cornerback Antonio Cromartie in London in Week 4 last season that a Colts player took a knee during the national anthem.
-- Mike Wells

Minnesota Vikings: A host of Vikings were joined by general manager Rick Spielman and owners Mark and Zygi Wilf on the sideline pregame and linked arms during the national anthem before the game against the Bucs.
Not all Vikings participated in the display, including members of the offensive line, Dalvin Cook, Latavius Murray, C.J.
Ham, who stood with their hands over their heart during the anthem.
Running back Jerick McKinnon stood with his arms around Vikings special teams coach Mike Priefer and trainer Eric Sugarman.
-- Courtney Cronin

Houston Texans: During the national anthem before Sunday's game against the Patriots, Texans players stood side-by-side and linked arms.
This is the first time they have done that.
The only other protest that has happened in the past is when Duane Brown raised his fist in Week 3 last year at Gillette Stadium.
Hes not with the team right now.
COO (and owner Bob McNairs son) Cal McNair joined players as well.
-- Sarah Barshop

New York Jets: Every Jets player, coach and staff member linked arms during the national anthem before the game against the Dolphins.
Acting owner Christopher Johnson, the younger brother of owner and US Ambassador to the UK Woody Johnson, was among them.
He stood between quarterback Josh McCown and safety Jamal Adams.
The Jets have yet to comment publicly on Trump.
-- Rich Cimini

Carolina Panthers: Defensive end Julius Peppers was not on the field for the national anthem before Sunday's game against the Saints.
The rest of the team stood as players have since the season began.
-- David Newton

Tennessee Titans: Wide receiver Rishard Matthews will use his cleats before Sunday's game against the Seahawks as a way to express his feelings about racial inequality and President Donald Trump's verbal attack NFL players and those who protest.
Matthews' red, white and blue cleats read "We are One" and "We all bleed the Same."
-- Cameron Wolfe

These are the cleats that Titans WR Rishard Matthews will wear in today's game vs. Seahawks.
They say We are One' and We all bleed the same,' as a message against racial inequality in this country and Donald Trump's verbal attack against the NFL and its players who choose to protest.
Matthews, a strong supporter of the military, told me last month: "We're men that play football.
We're not just football players."
Cameron Wolfe, ESPN Staff Writer

Buffalo Bills: The entire Bills sideline took the unusual step of walking about 10 yards toward the middle of the field for the national anthem.
Several players then kneeled for the national anthem.
LeSean McCoy took a knee at one end of the line, with scattered players kneeling throughout, including WR Jordan Matthews, DE Ryan Davis, DE Shaq Lawson, LB Lorenzo Alexander, RB Mike Tolbert, CB Shareece Wright, CB Leonard Johnson, DT Cedric Thornton and DT Marcell Dareus.
Other players linked arms and players stood behind those kneeling with hands on their shoulders.
Coach Sean McDermott locked arms with Bills players in the center of their line.
Mike Tolbert had a message on his T-shirt during warm-ups before the game against the Broncos.
-- Mike Rodak

Baltimore Ravens: The Ravens, whose players had never protested during the anthem previously, had 10 players who took a knee before Sunday's game in London against the Jaguars: linebackers Terrell Suggs, C.J.
Mosley, Tim Williams, Tyus Bowser and Za'Darius Smith, wide receiver Mike Wallace, defensive lineman Carl Davis, safety Tony Jefferson, and defensive backs Anthony Levine and Lardarius Webb.
-- Jamison Hensley

Jacksonville Jaguars: Jaguars players linked arms in London for the national anthem before their game against the Ravens.
Jalen Ramsey, A.J.
Bouye, Calais Campbell, Malik Jackson, Tashaun Gipson, Yannick Ngakoue and Dante Fowler were among the players who also took a knee -- and they were joined by Jaguars coach Doug Marrone.
Owner Shad Khan stood and linked arms with Marcedes Lewis and Telvin Smith.
-- Michael DiRocco

From Thursday Night Football

Los Angeles Rams: Robert Quinn raised his right fist during the national anthem before Thursday's game against the 49ers, and punter Johnny Hekker placed his hand on Quinns back in support, just like he did in Week 2.
Quinn said last week: I think that just shows the message were trying to send is unity.
-- Alden Gonzalez

San Francisco 49ers: Safety Eric Reid knelt again during the national anthem before Thursdays game against the Rams.
Reid did not play because of a knee injury but was on the field and surrounded by about 10 teammates as they put hands on each other's shoulder pads.
-- Nick Wagoner
At a rally in Huntsville, Alabama, President Donald Trump told the crowd he would "love" for NFL owners to punish players for protesting during the national anthem.
(0:47)

President Donald Trump on Friday night criticized NFL players who lodge protests during the national anthem.
Speaking at a political rally in Huntsville, Alabama, Trump said: "Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a b---- off the field right now.
He's fired!
He's fired!"
Here's how former and present NFL players, and front-office executives, reacted on social media:

Statement from #Patriots Chairman & CEO Robert Kraft: pic.twitter.com/f5DJeK0Woj  New England Patriots (@Patriots) September 24, 2017

Packers president Mark Murphy:

"It's unfortunate that the President decided to use his immense platform to make divisive and offensive statements about our players and the NFL.
We strongly believe that players are leaders in our communities and positive influences.
They have achieved their positions through tremendous work and dedication and should be celebrated for their success and positive impact.
We believe it is important to support any of our players who choose to peacefully express themselves with the hope of change for good.
As Americans, we are fortunate to be able to speak openly and freely."
Rob Demovsky, ESPN Staff Writer

I just spoke with Raiders owner Mark Davis.
He told me the following: About a year ago, before our Tennessee game, I met with Derek Carr and Khalil Mack to ask their permission to have Tommie Smith light the torch for my father before the game in Mexico City.
I explained to them that I was asking their permission because I had previously told them that I would prefer that they not protest while in the Raiders uniform.
And should they have something to say, once their uniform was off, I might go up there with them.
Over the last year, though, the streets have gotten hot and there has been a lot of static in the air and recently, fuel has been added to the fire.
I can no longer ask our team to not say something while they are in a Raider uniform.
The only thing I can ask them to do is do it with class.
Do it with pride.
Not only do we have to tell people there is something wrong, we have to come up with answers.
Thats the challenge in front of us as Americans and human beings.
Paul Gutierrez, ESPN Staff Writer

We'll "stick to football" when we see progress.
Our Nations leader can't even set a good example of how it looks to be a great American  Davante Adams (@tae15adams) September 23, 2017

Only validates @Kaepernick7 bringing social injustice to light, he kneeled hoping it'd bring attention to what he believed in... Has it not?
cameron jordan (@camjordan94) September 23, 2017

You can't lead the world POTUS if you can't unite your own country  Robert Griffin III (@RGIII) September 23, 2017

The behavior of the President is unacceptable and needs to be addressed.
If you do not Condemn this divisive Rhetoric you are Condoning it!!
Richard Sherman (@RSherman_25) September 23, 2017

Continue to use your voices and your platforms for racial equality and to stop injustices in our communities.
This is bigger than us!!!
Michael Thomas (@Michael31Thomas) September 23, 2017

Ppl said it was disrespectful not going to the White House..I'm sure they are quiet about us being called "sons of bitches" (D-Mac)  Devin&Jason McCourty (@McCourtyTwins) September 23, 2017

I definitely will be making a statement no disrespect to our military of service But we have to stick together as people !!
Unity   Desean Jackson (@DeSeanJackson11) September 23, 2017

If a person wants the privilege of being the POTUS he must not disrespect every minority group in the country and say stupid things  https://t.co/9dtqq2QnBW  Torrey Smith (@TorreySmithWR) September 23, 2017

Why people think pro atheletes are put on this earth just to play sports???
Baffles me!
Jalen Reeves-Maybin (@ReevesMaybin) September 23, 2017

Does anyone tell trump to stick to politics, like they tell us to stick to sports?
Eric Ebron (@Ebron85) September 23, 2017

What an emphatic response, where was this passion in response to Charlottesville... https://t.co/OkVZTdloXx  Max Garcia (@MGarcia_76) September 23, 2017

Praying for Mr. Trump and all the people of this country.
1 Timothy 2:1-8  Cecil Shorts III (@CecilShortsIII) September 23, 2017

It's a shame and disgrace when you have the President of the US calling citizens of the country sons of a bitches.
Bishop Sankey (@BishopSankey) September 23, 2017

Smh & all because @Kaepernick7 is exercising his right as an American citizen to protest.
Bishop Sankey (@BishopSankey) September 23, 2017

Trump stay in ur place... football have nothing to do wit u smh  Zach Brown (@ZachBrown_55) September 23, 2017

Trump!!
Thomas Davis (@ThomasDavisSDTM) September 23, 2017

You have the privilege and honor to lead a Nation.
You sir should not disrespect people period.
https://t.co/giQPWLWpAC  Josh Robinson (@JROB_2one) September 23, 2017

I'm ok with being fired for what I believe in.
Martellus Bennett (@MartysaurusRex) September 23, 2017

"Stick to sports boy...
Sit down and do what your told.
Say or do something we don't like and your fired" Well I hate to break it to ya...  Chris Conley (@_flight17_) September 23, 2017

When will people learn that fear won't make someone sit down.
It quite possibly will make more stand up for what they believe in.
Chris Conley (@_flight17_) September 23, 2017

It is a sad day when the #POTUS seeks to disregard and punish American citizens for peacefully exercising their constitutional rights.
https://t.co/QPvrKDS29D  Benjamin Watson (@BenjaminSWatson) September 23, 2017

So the BLACK NFL PLAYERS are SON OF A BITCH now WOW  Chris Baker (@cbakerswaggy) September 23, 2017

Strong words from the Giants in response to President Donald Trump's comments: Jordan Raanan, ESPN Staff Writer

Something is really wrong with him.
It's 2017 and this guy is really the president of the United States!
He's not my president!
#Unity https://t.co/K94eSLyEid  Earl Wolff (@Ewolff28) September 23, 2017

NFL players don't work for you Donald!
Request denied  https://t.co/rdu0ocS7Y9  Reggie Bush (@ReggieBush) September 23, 2017

#Kaepernick we riding with you bro   Reggie Bush (@ReggieBush) September 23, 2017

So Trumpster is more mad at "son of a bi!
@&" athletes than he was the neo-nazi's in Charlottesville.
How am I not surprised?
Lance Moore (@LanceMoore16) September 23, 2017

I'm a full supporter of the Flag & This country!
Trust Me!
But this can't be real!
https://t.co/GAPkZPB8hz  Rishard Matthews (@_RMatthews) September 23, 2017

Statement from Titans controlling owner Amy Adams Strunk speaking about unity and praising the impact players have on the community.
Cameron Wolfe, ESPN Staff Writer

Statement from Chargers owner Dean Spanos on Donald Trump's comments regarding NFL player protests: "I wholeheartedly agree with the commissioner's statement.
The NFL and its players, more than anything, have been a force for good.
What our country needs right now is a message of unity, civility and mutual respect."
Eric D. Williams, ESPN Staff Writer

Raiders owner Mark Davis had no comment on Donald Trump saying NFL owners should fire a player who "disrespects" the American flag.
Davis did, however, maintain his stance that he wished players would not protest while in uniform, though he would not punish players who did protest.
"The Raiders have always stood for diversity and rights," Davis said last November, "but I just don't think they should protest while in uniform.
This is not a police state.
If there was an issue, come talk to me.
Hell, I may go and stand up there with them."
Paul Gutierrez, ESPN Staff Writer

Eagles owner Jeffrey Lurie released a statement Saturday night following comments from President Donald Trump, who said he wished NFL players who protested during the national anthem would be fired: Tim McManus, ESPN Staff Writer

Jaguars owner Shad Khan is in London with the team and spokesman Jim Woodcock said Khan would not have a separate statement regarding President Trump's recent comments about players that protest during the National Anthem.
"Commissioner Goodell's statement speaks for Mr. Khan and the Jaguars," Woodcock said.
Khan is one of seven NFL owners who donated $1 million to Trump.
Michael DiRocco, ESPN Staff Writer

Dolphins owner Stephen Ross' statement today: "Our country needs unifying leadership right now, not more divisiveness.
We need to seek to understand each other and have civil discourse instead of condemnation and sound bites.
I know our players who kneeled for the anthem and these are smart young men of character who want to make our world a better place for everyone.
They wanted to start a conversation and are making a difference in our community, including working with law enforcement to bring people together.
We all can benefit from learning, listening and respecting each other.
Sports is a common denominator in our world.
We all have the responsibility to use this platform to promote understanding, respect and equality."
James Walker, ESPN Staff Writer

Statement from Atlanta Falcons owner Arthur Blank following the comments from President Donald Trump: We are at our very best when we are working together, building unity and including everyones voice in a constructive dialogue.
Creating division or demonizing viewpoints that are different than our own accomplishes nothing positive and undermines our collective ability to achieve the ideals of our democracy.
The NFL has historically been a strong catalyst for positive change and Im proud of the way our players, coaches and staff use that platform to give back to our community and strive to be good citizens making a positive impact on this and future generations.
Vaughn McClure, ESPN Staff Writer

49ers CEO Jed York tweeted his response to President Donald Trumps comments about the NFL on Saturday afternoon: The callous and offensive comments made by the President are contradictory to what this great country stands for.
Our players have exercised their rights as United States citizens in order to spark conversation and action to address social injustice.
We will continue to support them in their peaceful pursuit of positive change in our country and around the world.
The San Francisco 49ers will continue to work toward bringing communities, and those who serve, them closer together.
Nick Wagoner, ESPN Staff Writer

A statement from Steelers president Art Rooney II regarding Donald Trump comments: "I believe the Commissioner made an appropriate statement, and I have nothing to add at this time."
Jeremy Fowler, ESPN Staff Writer

Cardinals coach Bruce Arians reacted Saturday to President Trump's comments made last night about how he thinks players who protest should be treated by NFL owners: "I thought the commissioner had a great statement and I agree with it.
Ive been in locker rooms for 25 years, and some of the most reputable men Ive ever met wear that uniform and to even get to overcome the things in their life to get to the NFL is amazing.
What theyve done in the last month for hurricane relief victims speaks volumes of what were all about in the NFL.
And Ill just leave it in that."
Josh Weinfuss, ESPN Staff Writer

#Seahawks WR @DougBaldwinJr official statement to me on Donald Trump's remarks on national anthem protests in the @NFL.
pic.twitter.com/pPA6ZR6UcB  Josina Anderson (@JosinaAnderson) September 23, 2017

Statement from Buffalo Bills Owners Terry and Kim Pegula.
pic.twitter.com/i3D5xzBBSn  Buffalo Bills (@buffalobills) September 24, 2017

Seahawks president Peter McLoughlin released this statement in response to President Donald Trump's comments: "We fully support our players' use of their freedom of speech and peaceful action to highlight the existing racial and other divides in our country.
Our players completely respect the military and veterans of our country; however, they believe these issues need to come to the forefront."
Brady Henderson, ESPN

Seahawks coach Pete Carroll released a statement of his own following the one from team president Peter McLoughlin.
Brady Henderson, ESPN

Lions owner Martha Ford just released a statement about President Donald Trump's comments about the NFL.
It reads: "Our game has long provided a powerful platform for dialogue and positive change in many communities throughout our nation.
"Thanks primarily to our players, the NFL also has been a unifying force in our country and impactful change has and hopefully will continue to be the result of peaceful expression, done so in order to highlight social injustices of all kind.
"Negative and disrespectful comments suggesting otherwise are contrary to the founding principles of our country, and we do not support those comments or opinions."
Michael Rothstein, ESPN Staff Writer

Saints statement pic.twitter.com/E6qNlciZSO  New Orleans Saints (@Saints) September 24, 2017

Statement from @HoustonTexans Founder, Chairman and CEO Robert C. McNair: pic.twitter.com/sF78Sc4hdg  Texans PR (@TexansPR) September 24, 2017

Statement from Zygi and Mark Wilf and the entire Wilf family.
pic.twitter.com/1YeAaKyjaW  Minnesota Vikings (@Vikings) September 24, 2017

Rams Owner/Chairman E. Stanley Kroenke has released the following statement: pic.twitter.com/4zJoRcYwr1  Myles Simmons (@MylesASimmons) September 24, 2017

"We could not be more proud, appreciative and grateful for our players."
A statement from President/CEO Joe Ellis: https://t.co/vBy9LbKZ4h pic.twitter.com/ELSEdhJdhN  Denver Broncos (@Broncos) September 24, 2017

A statement from the Buccaneers: pic.twitter.com/Xfamm2ihco  Tampa Bay Buccaneers (@TBBuccaneers) September 24, 2017
Stephania Bell reports the latest on Andrew Luck's recovery as he is expected to practice as early as next week.
(1:15)

Here are the most significant NFL players who got banged up in Week 3:

Sunday

Kelvin Benjamin, WR, Carolina Panthers: Benjamin left the game during the first quarter as his left leg was bent back awkwardly.
He walked off the field under his own power, and was examined on the sideline.
He went to the locker room before the end of the first half, and was declared questionable to return.
Darren Sproles, RB, Philadelphia Eagles: Sproles sustained a leg injury after being hit by Giants safety Darian Thompson in the second quarter.
He walked off the field under his own power, then went to the locker room for further evaluation.
He was declared questionable to return.
Jesse James, TE, Pittsburgh Steelers: After taking a hard hit on his left shoulder, James left the game for a series, then returned, but took himself back out after one play.
He was examined in the sideline medical tent, before leaving for the locker room with his shoulder pads off.
The team declared him questionable to return.
Ramon Foster, G, Pittsburgh Steelers: Foster headed to the locker room for further evaluation of a left hand injury after a strip sack of Ben Roethlisberger in the first quarter.
The team announced that his return is questionable.
Hroniss Grasu, C, Chicago Bears: Grasu left the game in the first half to undergo examination for a wrist injury.
The team declared him questionable to return.
Jay Ajayi, RB, Miami Dolphins: Ajayi left the game early in the first quarter, favoring his left arm or wrist, per ESPN's James Walker.
He returned for the start of the Dolphins' second drive.
Tony Jefferson, S, Baltimore Ravens: Jefferson was injured while tackling Jaguars TE James O'Shaughnessy late in the second quarter.
He walked off the field under his own power, and returned in the second half.
Jeremy Maclin, WR, Baltimore Ravens: Maclin underwent concussion protocol after falling and hitting his head during an intercepted play in the second quarter against Jacksonville.
He was cleared to return at the start of the second half.
Brent Urban, DE, Baltimore Ravens: Urban (foot sprain) was injured early in the second quarter against the Jaguars and is questionable to return.
The Ravens are already down one starting lineman, with Brandon Williams not making the trip to London because of a foot injury.
Thursday

Sammy Watkins, WR, Los Angeles Rams: Watkins was having his best game as a Ram -- six catches on seven targets, for 106 yards and two touchdowns -- before sustaining a concussion in the fourth quarter of Los Angeles' win over San Francisco.
He's currently in the concussion protocol.
Tavon Austin, WR, Los Angeles Rams: Like his teammate Watkins, Austin left the Rams' win over the 49ers after sustaining a concussion.
Austin had managed 14 yards on three rushes but was not targeted in the passing game during the contest.
Tank Carradine, LB, San Francisco 49ers: Carradine left during the second half of Thursday's loss with an ankle injury.
On Friday, head coach Kyle Shanahan reported that Carradine has a high-ankle sprain, and a decision will be made soon as to whether he'll be placed on injured reserve, per ESPN's Nick Wagoner.
Kyle Juszczyk, FB, San Francisco 49ers: Juszczyk also sustained a concussion in Thursday's game after hauling in one reception for 34 yards in the loss to Los Angeles.
Week 4 brought the first or second tests for many playoff contenders.
All but one -- sorry, Oklahoma State -- earned high marks.
Profiles are finally being built, and most teams in these rankings have at least one nice skin on their walls.
Week 4 was mostly about road victories, from the undeniably impressive (TCU, Washington) to the extremely hard-fought (Penn State, USC) to the shaky (Oklahoma).
Georgia, meanwhile, made it clear visitors won't be welcome between the hedges this season.
There's a definite drop-off after No.
12 and some shuffling at the bottom of the rankings.
But the days of projections are over.
Evidence is here.
There are five former head coaches on the College Football Playoff selection committee and five athletic directors, all of whom can appreciate how difficult it is to win a conference road game.
4 Penn State is less likely to be penalized for winning a close game at unranked Iowa than it is to be rewarded for finding a way to win.
That's what Week 4 was all about: survival.
"They made us earn it," Penn State coach James Franklin said after his team's 21-19 win that was decided on the final play as the clock expired.
Four of the top five teams -- No.
2 Clemson, No.
3 Oklahoma, Penn State and No.
5 USC -- all had to overcome miscues and relentless opponents in order to stay undefeated.
8 Michigan lost starting quarterback Wilton Speight to an injury but still left Purdue with a win.
"They can win in the late rounds," coach Jim Harbaugh said, according to The Associated Press.
"That's a great thing to learn about your ballclub.
You never know quite what the character is.
Things get tough, and a lot of people start groping for alternatives.
Our guys dug deep and finished them off."
Here's a look at where each of those CFP contenders stumbled on Saturday, and whether or not fans should sound the alarm:

No.
2 Clemson (beat Boston College 34-7)

What went wrong: Turnovers and a quiet passing game.
The Tigers were tied 7-7 with Boston College in the fourth quarter before exploding to score four touchdowns in the final 12 minutes.
Rookie QB Kelly Bryant's passing game finally exhibited some flaws as he threw two interceptions and no touchdowns, but he helped compensate for it with two rushing touchdowns and 106 rushing yards.
"We're battle-tested, and we had our nose bloodied today," coach Dabo Swinney said, "but at the end of the day, we came away with the win.
This game was a challenge, but it's going to make us better."
Level of concern: low

Here's the good news: Even when the passing game wasn't hitting on all cylinders, the running game took over.
The concern?
Clemson has to travel to Virginia Tech this week, one of the toughest venues in the ACC, and traditionally one of the stingiest defenses under longtime coordinator Bud Foster.
It's the kind of opportunistic defense that can force Bryant into similar mistakes and create a short field for the Hokies' offense.
Clemson's defense is elite, though, and was the difference in wins over Auburn and Louisville.
With Florida State now 0-2, Clemson's spot atop the ACC Atlantic is even more solid.
3 Oklahoma (beat Baylor 49-41)

What went wrong: The pass defense.
This was the first time the Sooners' defense was really exposed, and it surprisingly came against a winless Baylor team.
Overall, OU allowed Baylor 523 yards of total offense, and the Bears converted on both of their fourth-down attempts.
Baylor quarterback Zach Smith had 463 passing yards, including touchdowns of 71 and 72 yards.
Editor's Picks Say hello to college football's newest contenders TCU and Georgia joined college football's upper echelon with statement wins Saturday.
Level of concern: medium

Oklahoma has until Nov. 4, when it faces Mason Rudolph and Oklahoma State, to fix the kinks in the passing defense.
The good news for OU is that Oklahoma State already lost to TCU.
The bad news?
TCU looked really good and it played strong defense against elite competition, unlike OU.
There's a big bull's-eye that comes with being the best, and even winless Baylor had its sights set on the target.
Don't forget, this was first-year coach Lincoln Riley's first Big 12 win as the Sooners' head coach.
Quarterback Baker Mayfield still hasn't thrown an interception, and OU's running back rotation continues to evolve.
ESPN's Football Power Index still projects the Sooners to win each of their remaining games.
4 Penn State (beat Iowa 21-19)

What went wrong: This one is a head-scratcher.
Penn State outgained Iowa 219-54 in yardage in the first half and trailed 7-5.
More than anything, this was the first time all season Penn State had really been tested (it was the first time all season it trailed in a game), and it came on the road in a hostile environment with a history of upsets.
It was less about what Penn State couldn't do, and more about Iowa's resolve and defense.
As good as Trace McSorley is, his interception late in the second quarter led to an Iowa touchdown.
Level of concern: low

With the dynamic duo of McSorley and running back Saquon Barkley -- whose Heisman hurdle and school-record 358 all-purpose yards will continue to be replayed until the December ceremony in New York -- Penn State maintained the wiggle room it needs for the challenging schedule ahead.
The Nittany Lions' toughest stretch comes with a game against No.
8 Michigan on Oct. 21 followed by a road trip to Columbus on Oct. 28, both of which come before the first CFP ranking is revealed on Oct. 31.
Because it escaped Iowa with a win, though, it maintains some margin for error.
5 USC (beat Cal 30-20)

What went wrong: Sam Darnold was missing his Heisman form.
The USC offense goes as Darnold goes, and it's been just good enough.
It hasn't helped that USC's running game wasn't as explosive without Ronald Jones II, which puts more pressure on the passing game.
Darnold was 0-for-8 on passes thrown at least 15 yards beyond the line of scrimmage, according to ESPN's Stats & Information.
It was his first career start without a completion at least 15 yards downfield.
"It's 100 percent my fault," Darnold said after the game.
"I'm not getting the ball out far enough on deep routes or whether it's balls being tipped, not seeing the D-linemen and him getting a big paw on the ball to tip it in the air."
The defense had six takeaways, but the game was still tied at 13 in the fourth quarter.
Level of concern: medium

Don't forget USC was coming off an emotional double-overtime win against Texas.
Cal also deserves some credit for the quick improvements it has made under new coach Justin Wilcox.
USC has the talent to keep finding ways to win, but it has to be better and more consistent on offense.
USC is 0-for-5 on fourth downs this season, and was just 6-of-15 on third downs against Cal.
Now it has to turn around on Friday and travel to Washington State, which is also undefeated.
In order to keep pace with coach Mike Leach and QB Luke Falk, Darnold is going to have to make better decisions and eliminate the turnovers.
8 Michigan (beat Purdue 28-10)

What went wrong: It was another sluggish first-half performance for the offense, as the Wolverines punted on five of their seven drives, averaged just 3.7 yards per play and had 131 total yards.
They trailed 10-7 at the half.
With what Harbaugh described as a "soft tissue" injury for Speight, and the respectable performance of his backup, John O'Korn, the Wolverines are still searching for their offensive identity.
Level of concern: medium

What's the extent of Speight's injury, and even if he can return, will he?
Or Will Harbaugh turn the offense over to O'Korn, who helped guide the Wolverines to a perfect 3-for-3 in the red zone in the second half?
The defense has championship-caliber potential, but it has to sustain it against three top-10 opponents in Penn State, No.
9 Wisconsin and No.
10 Ohio State.
The Wolverines had five sacks, held the Boilermakers to just 30 rushing yards and kept them scoreless in the second half.
Can Michigan do that against the likes of Barkley?
Alex Hornibrook?
Barrett?
It's fair to say that most of what happened Saturday wasn't totally surprising.
Exciting, of course, but surprising?
Come on, this is college football.
What we did learn in Week 4 is that the gap between the favorites and the rest of the field is not as wide as we may have thought in some Power 5 conferences, and formidable challengers have emerged in unexpected places.
Thanks to TCU's blowout of Oklahoma State, Georgia's domination of Mississippi State and Penn State's last-second victory over Iowa, it's time to adjust some of our preconceived notions.
Take the Big 12, for example.
Entering Saturday, the cream of the conference resided in the state of Oklahoma.
You had the third-ranked Sooners planting flags, putting up points and inflicting pain on their first three opponents.
You also had high-flying No.
6 Oklahoma State, a team many were picking as a dark horse for the College Football Playoff.
Kenny Hill helped keep TCU unbeaten with a road win at No.
6 Oklahoma State.
Rob Ferguson-USA TODAY Sports

By the end of the night, the 16th-ranked Horned Frogs were the talk of the conference with their 44-31 win over the Cowboys in Stillwater.
TCU dominated this game from the second quarter on, leading by as many as 20 points early in the fourth quarter.
TCU entered the season under the radar and relatively unknown.
Head coach Gary Patterson, forever the forgotten man in the Big 12, outcoached Mike Gundy, while his players out-everythinged Oklahoma State.
TCU forced Heisman Trophy candidate Mason Rudolph to make some uncharacteristically bad throws (two interceptions) as the Horned Frogs beat an opponent ranked in the top six on the road for the third time in their past four tries.
It was a purple clinic by the Frogs, who managed nearly 500 yards and had 32 first downs while witnessing tremendous growth from quarterback Kenny Hill, who was actually a thrill to watch, turning into both a weapon and a game-manager.
The Frogs' domination put Oklahoma on notice, too, especially with their much closer-than-expected 49-41 win over Baylor, after trailing 31-28 in the third quarter and surrendering 523 yards.
TCU's win won't shove them to the top of the Big 12, but it means that Oklahoma's grip on the conference isn't as tight as expected.
The same can be said for the SEC.
Kind of.
Now, let' be clear: This is No.
1 Alabama's conference.
In fact, a 59-0 pounding of a pesky and confident Vanderbilt reminded everyone in the SEC of their rightful place -- way behind the Tide.
However, 11th-ranked Georgia's 31-3 obliteration of red-hot No.
17 Mississippi State left the door cracked open a little in the SEC.
As it stands, there are only two teams capable of beating Alabama -- Alabama and maybe Georgia.
Nick Chubb scored two touchdowns to help fuel Georgia's rout of Mississippi State.
Bob Andres/Atlanta Journal Constitution via AP)

Nick Saban, forever the master manipulator of motivation (just look at the faux outrage created when one Vanderbilt player dared to show confidence about upsetting the Tide) won't let his team slip into complacency after such a commanding conference win, so that leaves the Dawgs to try to dethrone this juggernaut.
UGA quarterback Jake Fromm, evolving at tremendous speed, looks good enough to keep his starting job even when Jacob Eason returns from a knee injury, and that defense is absolutely smothering, holding one of the SEC's most exciting quarterbacks in Nick Fitzgerald to just 130 total yards and two interceptions.
Head coach Kirby Smart, created in Saban's image, has a brutally tough team erected in Alabama's mold in an SEC East that seems to get worse every week.
Tennessee and South Carolina survived UMass and Louisiana Tech, respectfully, while Missouri is one of the nation's worst teams, and No.
20 Florida is three terribly bad defensive breakdowns by Tennessee and Kentucky away from being 0-3 instead of 2-1.
Georgia made the statement that it's the closest thing the SEC has to having a challenger to Alabama, and if these two don't meet in Atlanta in the SEC championship game in December, it'll be a travesty.
Editor's Picks 'I kind of blanked out': Inside Juwan Johnson's game winner for Penn State Juwan Johnson's walk-off score for No.
4 Penn State on Saturday night was the product of an observation he made to his WR coach earlier in the quarter.
College Football Playoff picks after Week 4 Oklahoma State fell to TCU, and Penn State just survived against Iowa.
One team that had no such trouble was Alabama, which solidified its grasp on the top spot, according to our experts.
1 Related

When it comes to challengers in the Big Ten, things might have opened up some for the conference.
Fourth-ranked Penn State's fantastic finish in Iowa City keeps the Nittany Lions in the Big Ten driver's seat, but this kind of scare should give No.
8 Michigan and No.
10 Ohio State fans a little comfort.
If not for another incredible performance by Saquon Barkley, who might be at the top of the Heisman list now, and a gutty last-second touchdown pass by Trace McSorley, Penn State wasn't leaving with a 21-19 win.
Michigan hasn't looked nearly as dominant since its opening win over Florida, and quarterback Wilton Speight went down in an ugly 28-10 victory over an improved Purdue.
Meanwhile, Ohio State is trying to figure out if it's more Jekyll or Hyde right now.
But Penn State's Saturday struggles should give these two teams a little more leeway in the Big Ten race, and the window remains very much open for ninth-ranked Wisconsin, which won't see the Buckeyes or the Nittany Lions during the regular season.
Here was the best stuff from Week 4 in college football:

Heisman hurdle?
Saquon Barkley is just not fair.
pic.twitter.com/kctEK2EBpg  Bryan Fischer (@BryanDFischer) September 24, 2017

Sheldrick Redwine took his turn wearing Miami's "Turnover Chain" during the Hurricanes' win over Toledo.
..........

 

 



 pic.twitter.com/7KSSKlJPLh  Canes Football (@CanesFootball) September 23, 2017

Is that some kind of record?
99 yards ... 99 YARDS.
pic.twitter.com/X56jwFzLmp  ESPN CollegeFootball (@ESPNCFB) September 23, 2017

Abdul Adams' 99-yard run is the longest run in OU history.
The previous record was 96 yards, set by Jeff Frazier in 1995.
A man can dream

Can this New York Jets fan predict the future?
He sure hopes so as he's already invested in a Sam Darnold jersey in the green and white.
Darnold and USC ready to take on Cal here in Berkeley.
Nick Wagoner, ESPN Staff Writer

INT of the day

Happy birthday to you!
Alae Risse Leitch is celebrating her 104th birthday today.
She's been coming to Georgia Tech football games since 1920.
#TogetherWeSwarm pic.twitter.com/jSdvNBPwJQ  Georgia Tech (@GeorgiaTech) September 23, 2017

Pokes fans loving Melo move

The OKC Thunder trade for Carmelo Anthony caused a buzz among the Oklahoma State tailgates leading into Saturday's TCU game.
"Im a little bummed about (Enes) Kanter getting traded.
... but I think were going to the Western Finals now," said Edmond native Bryson Holden, a freshman at OSU.
Cowboy/Thunder fans Chad Schmidt and Lance Hoose found out about the trade watching the ESPN crawl at Eskimo Joe's.
"I love it," said Schmidt, whose son was actually going to Kanter's basketball camp this weekend.
"It moves us up there (with Golden State)," Hoose said.
"Going to come down to who wants it on the court more now."
Jake Trotter, ESPN Staff Writer

A Texas-sized burger

Everything's bigger in Texas, right?
Especially the burgers.
This Texas A&M fan purchased the "mega burger" at AT&T Stadium on Saturday.
Sam Khan Jr., ESPN Staff Writer

This is actually the "Super 16" Burger at AT&T Stadium.
The burger has 16 ounces of meat, including chopped brisket, the official barbecue delicacy of Texas.
It has four slices of cheese.
Matthew Berry discusses why Bilal Powell can turn things around this season but doesn't expect it to start in Week 3 against the Dolphins.
(1:55)

ABOUT COOKIES

We use cookies to offer an improved online experience.
By clicking "OK" without changing your settings you are giving your consent to receive cookies.
To help you set your lineups and avoid starting a player who won't take the field, we will post fantasy-relevant updates and analysis here as NFL teams release their Sunday inactive lists before kickoff.
Any rankings cited in this column come from our ESPN Fantasy staff ranks.
Refresh often for the latest information.
Editor's Picks Fantasy football injury outlooks for Week 3 Wondering what you can expect in Week 3 from dinged-up players like Randall Cobb, Demarco Murray and Jordan Reed?
Our injury expert gives her thoughts on every notable injured player.
Last-minute pickups for fantasy football Week 3 Which widely available players should you pick up and start for Week 3?
Our experts compile the best options at every position, including a Browns quarterback and Redskins running back.
1 Related

Ruled out before Sunday

Offense: TE Maxx Williams (foot), QB Paxton Lynch (shoulder), RB Terron Ward (neck), RB Dwayne Washington (quadriceps), QB Andrew Luck (shoulder/labrum), RB Marlon Mack (shoulder), WR Chester Rogers (hamstring), WR Will Fuller V (shoulder), RB Rex Burkhead (ribs), TE Eric Tomlinson (ankle), WR Corey Davis (hamstring), WR John Ross (knee), TE Tyler Eifert (knee), WR Mike Williams (back)

Defense: DE Brandon Williams (foot), DE Lerentee McCray (knee), CB Brendan Langley (knee), DT Marcell Dareus (ankle), DT Jerel Worthy (concussion), CB Sterling Moore (chest), CB Marshon Lattimore (concussion), LB Jeremy Cash (calf), LB T.J. Watt (groin), LB Nick Kwiatkoski (chest), DE Courtney Upshaw (ankle), LB Vic Beasley (hamstring), LB Jarrad Davis (concussion), S Tavon Wilson (shoulder), LB Jamie Collins (concussion), CB Quincy Wilson (knee), LB Kwon Alexander (hamstring), CB Kevin Johnson (knee), LB Rey Maualuga (hamstring), LB J.T.
Thomas (groin), LB B.J.
Goodson (shin), DT Destiny Vaeao (wrist), S Corey Graham (hamstring), S Jaylen Watkins (hamstring), CB Neiko Thorpe (ankle), S Johnathan Cyprien (hamstring), CB Jason Verrett (knee)

Late games, 4:05 and 4:25 p.m.
ET (three scheduled)

Offense

TE Jimmy Graham (questionable, ankle)

RB DeMarco Murray (questionable, hamstring)

WR Randall Cobb (doubtful, chest)

WR Jordy Nelson (questionable, quadriceps)

RB Melvin Gordon (questionable, knee)

Defense

LB Terence Garvin (questionable, shoulder)

DE Michael Johnson (questionable, concussion)

S Derron Smith (questionable, ankle)

DE Mike Daniels (doubtful, hip)

LB Jake Ryan (doubtful, concussion)

CB Davon House (doubtful, quadriceps)

S Kentrell Brice (doubtful, groin)

LB Hayes Pullard III (questionable, knee)

Sunday night game, 8:30 p.m.
ET

CB Sean Smith (questionable, neck)

RB Rob Kelley (questionable, ribs)

TE Jordan Reed (questionable, chest)

LB Mason Foster (questionable, shoulder)

CB Josh Norman (questionable, shoulder/AC joint)

S Montae Nicholson (questionable, shoulder/AC joint)

Updates/analysis (most recent first)

Tampa Bay Buccaneers (12:05 p.m.): The team will be down three defensive starters, with CB Brent Grimes, LB Kwon Alexander and DT Chris Baker all inactive for Week 3.
That should make it a lot easier for the Vikings to manage being without QB Sam Bradford for yet another week.
Vontae Davis (11:58 a.m.): The Colts will be short-handed in the secondary for the third consecutive game as Davis sits again with a groin injury.
DeShone Kizer could hit a few deep balls today, so move him up a bit in your fantasy rankings.
Austin Seferian-Jenkins (11:55 a.m.): The tight end will start for the first time this season after serving a two-game suspension.
Will Tye will back him up as both Eric Tomlinson and Jordan Leggett are injured.
Janoris Jenkins (9:25 a.m.): The Giants said the cornerback "looked good" in Saturday's walk-through and should be able to play today, batting any unforeseen setbacks.
That could put a bit of a damper on Carson Wentz and the Philadelphia passing game's ability to have a huge day, though if he does sit, the Eagles aerial attack could shine.
T.J. Yeldon (8:05 a.m.): It's not looking good for Yeldon's 2017 season as, for the third week in a row, he is a healthy inactive for the Jaguars.
Leonard Fournette's arrival seems to have impacted the third-year back more than most likely thought.
His fantasy value is nonexistent.
Sam Bradford (7:45 a.m.): While the Vikings quarterback will be out for Week 3, the good news is that a second opinion from Dr. James Andrews confirmed that there is nothing structurally wrong with his knee.
He may well be back in a few weeks, so don't go cutting any Minnesota wideouts just yet, even if you have to endure some Case Keenum-generated stats for a bit.
Adam Schefter's overnight update (7:40 a.m.): The ESPN NFL Insider always scours his sources while the rest of us are sleeping.
He has reported that Bennie Fowler III and Garett Bolles are both expected to play on Sunday, as are Jordy Nelson and Melvin Gordon.
DeMarco Murray is "more than likely" to suit up, though that may mean limited action is ahead -- start with caution.
Neither Rob Kelley nor Jordan Reed is looking good for Sunday night's affair.
Official Sunday inactives should begin coming in at approximately 11:30 a.m.
ET for the early games, 2:30 p.m.
ET for the late games and 7 p.m.
ET for the Sunday night game.
London game, 9:30 a.m.
ET

RB Terrance West (questionable, calf) -- active

WR Chris Matthews (questionable, ankle) -- active

WR Michael Campanaro (questionable, ankle) -- active

LB Za'Darius Smith (questionable, knee) -- active

QB Chad Henne (questionable, illness) -- active

CB Jalen Ramsey (questionable, ankle) -- active

RB T.J. Yeldon (coach's decision) -- inactive

Early games, 1 p.m.
ET (nine scheduled)

Offense

WR Bennie Fowler III (questionable, concussion) -- active

QB Cam Newton (questionable, ankle) -- active

WR Sammie Coates (doubtful, hamstring) -- inactive

WR Kamar Aiken (questionable, hip) -- active

TE Brandon Williams (questionable, calf) -- active

RB Alfred Blue (questionable, ankle) -- inactive

WR Danny Amendola (questionable, knee) -- active

WR Chris Hogan (questionable, knee) -- active

WR Phillip Dorsett (questionable, knee) -- active

TE Rob Gronkowski (questionable, groin) -- active

RB Damien Williams (questionable, ribs) -- active

RB Jay Ajayi (questionable, knee) -- active

WR Jarvis Landry (questionable, knee) -- active

WR DeVante Parker (questionable, ankle) -- active

TE Jordan Leggett (doubtful, knee) -- inactive

TE Will Tye (questionable, illness) -- active

WR Torrey Smith (questionable, illness) -- active

Defense

DE Trey Hendrickson (questionable, knee) -- active

DE Stephon Tuitt (questionable, biceps) -- inactive

DE Ezekiel Ansah (questionable, knee) -- active

DE Myles Garrett (doubtful, ankle) -- inactive

CB Vontae Davis (doubtful, groin) -- inactive

S Darius Butler (questionable, hamstring) -- active

DT Chris Baker (doubtful, illness) -- inactive

DT Gerald McCoy (questionable, ankle) -- active

LB Devante Bond (questionable, knee) -- active

CB Brent Grimes (questionable, shoulder) -- inactive

DE Brandon Dunn (questionable, knee) -- active

LB Dont'a Hightower (questionable, knee) -- inactive

LB Elandon Roberts (questionable, thumb) -- active

CB Stephon Gilmore (questionable, groin) -- active

CB Eric Rowe (questionable, groin) -- inactive

DT Jordan Phillips (doubtful, ankle) -- inactive

DE Muhammad Wilkerson (questionable, shoulder) -- active

S Rontez Miles (doubtful, eye) -- inactive

CB Janoris Jenkins (questionable, ankle) -- active

S Rodney McLeod (questionable, hamstring) -- inactive
Steve Kerr comments on President Donald Trump's tweeting that the Warriors are not welcome at the White House, saying it is more difficult to put aside political differences than it was in the past.
(2:07)

OAKLAND, Calif. -- Stephen Curry emerged from the Golden State Warriors training room with a huge grin.
He'd had all morning to decide how to respond to being called out in a tweet by President Donald Trump and disinvited to celebrate the Warriors' NBA title at the White House.
And as he walked over to address a crowd of about two dozen sports reporters who were all of a sudden swimming in the same strange political pond, Curry was all smiles.
"Anyone got any basketball questions?"
Curry joked to break the ice.
It was funny for a moment, but as the words left his mouth, both Curry and the assembled crowd seemed to realize that all of this was probably intertwined forever now.
"The last time athletes have been this outspoken was with Muhammad Ali and Bill Russell," head coach Steve Kerr told ESPN.
"That's the last time probably we've seen this kind of division in the country and with civil rights issues.
"Now all of a sudden, our country is in a really weird place, and everything is blending together."
Late-night comics are debating health care policy with senators.
LeBron James is tweeting at the president, "U bum."
NFL owners are issuing statements decrying the president's tweets on the peaceful protest their players have engaged in to call attention to racism and police brutality.
The NFL Players Association is making videos urging its players to stand together on Sunday to protest the president's condemnations, with imagery from civil rights era protest marches.
It's all intertwined now.
U bum @StephenCurry30 already said he ain't going!
So therefore ain't no invite.
Going to White House was a great honor until you showed up!
LeBron James (@KingJames) September 23, 2017

The Warriors have been thinking on, and answering questions about, celebrating at the White House since June.
Everyone in the organization and the league office recognized the responsibility of the decision.
This would serve as a precedent for future NBA champions and a litmus test for champions in other sports.
There was a statement to make in attending a White House celebration.
And there was a statement to make in not attending a White House celebration.
The very least the Warriors and NBA could do was give it thoughtful consideration, which had been ongoing for months and was set to conclude Saturday morning before the team's first practice.
Then, President Trump ended all debate by disinviting the team over Twitter and criticizing Curry's public comments at media day Friday.
It was a stunning end to what had been a long process among the team, the league, its players and several senior White House officials.
Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team.Stephen Curry is hesitating,therefore invitation is withdrawn!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

"Surreal," Curry said.
"Insane," Kerr said.
And yet, it's not as uncommon for basketball to enter the political arena as you might think.
Remember the players' furor over former Clippers owner Donald Sterling's racist comments?
The Miami Heat's team photo in hoodies to honor Trayvon Martin?
The NBA's commercials to call attention to gun violence?
The NBA and its players have long been the most willing of all the major sports leagues to engage in cultural and political debate.
Kerr, Spurs coach Gregg Popovich and Pistons coach Stan Van Gundy have all been publicly critical of the president since he took office.
James even campaigned in Ohio for Democratic challenger Hillary Clinton.
But this time, the president answered back.
He had no interest in hearing what the Warriors had to say.
Maybe the divide had already grown too large and the rhetoric too ugly.
"The idea of civil discourse with a guy who is tweeting and demeaning people and saying the things he's saying is sort of far-fetched," Kerr said.
"Can you picture us really having a civil discourse with him?"
That's hard to picture.
But instead of the well-reasoned, calm, decision-making process the Warriors, NBA and senior White House officials had worked for months to set up, there was suddenly no choice to attend or not attend, and no chance at civil discourse at all.
"It was an actual chance to talk to the president," Kerr said.
"After all, he works for us.
He's a public servant.
He may not be aware of that, but he is a public servant, right?
So maybe as NBA champions, as people in a prominent position, we could go in and say, 'This is what's bothering us, what can we do about this?'"
Two-time NBA champion and two-time NBA MVP Stephen Curry found himself name-checked on Twitter by the president of the United States.
Kyle Terada/USA TODAY Sports

That was the case Kerr, general manager Bob Myers and owner Joe Lacob were going to make to the team Saturday morning.
Maybe there was a way to go to the White House and not have it turn into a photo opp.
Maybe there was a way to meet behind closed doors and discuss the issues, policies and rhetoric that so many in the organization found so noxious.
"There had been discussions between our camp and his camp all summer," Lacob told ESPN.
"He knew there would be a discussion and decision [Saturday].
And that was all usurped by a tweet.
I find that rather disconcerting."
Lacob said he was preparing for the team meeting when the president's tweet came across his screen.
"You don't get the opportunity to speak to the president and express your opinion very often," Lacob said.
"That does not mean that I support the president or his view or his policies, his rhetoric or tweets.
I'm probably very close to my players in their views.
"It was an actual chance to talk to the president.
After all, he works for us.
He's a public servant.
He may not be aware of that, but he is a public servant, right?
So maybe as NBA champions, as people in a prominent position, we could go in and say, 'This is what's bothering us, what can we do about this?'"
Steve Kerr, Warriors head coach

"I'm Jewish, and I felt persecuted by what happened in Charlottesville.
I saw the footage of the neo-Nazis.
It would have been nice to have that discourse with the president, but that's not possible [now].
First of all, we would have only gone if we were able to speak our voice.
But we never got to have that discussion."
That's the real missed opportunity here.
That the discussion ended before it began.
That a chance at civil discourse, even if it was just among the Warriors players, coaches, owners and executives, never took place.
That the president didn't want to hear or even engage in what any of them had to say.
"It was a big opportunity as a team and an organization to talk about what the situation was," Curry said.
"It's kind of funny that tweet was sent before we could meet as a team."
It's highly unlikely the Warriors would have voted to attend the White House celebration.
Most of the team's players had already stated publicly they didn't want to go.
Draymond Green cited the president's refusal to condemn neo-Nazis and white supremacists after a woman was killed during protests in Charlottesville as the final straw.
Kerr mentioned the president's divisive statements Friday about NFL players who kneeled during the national anthem.
"How about the irony of, 'Free speech is fine if you're a neo-Nazi chanting hate slogans, but free speech is not allowed to kneel in protest?'"
Kerr said.
"No matter how many times a football player says, 'I honor our military, but I'm protesting police brutality and racial inequality,' it doesn't matter.
Nationalists are saying, 'You're disrespecting our flag.'
Well, you know what else is disrespectful to our flag?
Racism.
And one's way worse than the other."
One of the hallmarks of the Warriors organization is that it encourages debate, even with strong opinions on both sides.
"I believe it's not only OK, but it's required to have opinions," Lacob said.
"I've run a lot of companies, and for me, that's what works best.
I have my personal views, Steve Kerr has his views, Rick Welts has his views, Bob Myers has his views, the players have their views.
And we should all get in a room and discuss and decide.
"That's why you have Steph or KD speaking their minds.
Nobody tells them what to say or do.
I think it's the right way to run an organization.
I think we're better when we operate that way."
"It was a big opportunity as a team and an organization to talk about what the situation was.
It's kind of funny that tweet was sent before we could meet as a team."
Stephen Curry

Sports have long served as America's town hall.
Lately, there has been a lot of talking at each other and not to each other.
It has gotten loud and emotional on both sides.
"I spent some time last year sort of blasting the president," Kerr said.
Then he took a step back Saturday and thought about the best way to have an impact.
"It was unanimous today," Kerr said.
"We stand for the things we think our country should stand for -- inclusiveness, equality, diversity, joy and love.
It sounds corny, but that's what we stand for."
Statement from the Golden State Warriors: pic.twitter.com/6kk6ofdu9X  Warriors PR (@WarriorsPR) September 23, 2017

Curry ended his news conference Saturday much as he had begun it.
He said he wanted to focus on ways the team could do something meaningful during its trip to Washington, D.C., in late February.
He said he'd continue to stand for what he believed in.
Then he smiled and said, "Oh, I had a good pick-and-roll today.
I made a basket."
Back to basketball, whatever reality that is now.
Since the 2011 trade to the Knicks, Carmelo Anthony's career has seen many ups and downs ... including a feud with Phil Jackson before Anthony's trade to Oklahoma City.
(4:14)

A few weeks into the 2014-15 season, a handwritten message appeared on the whiteboard in the New York Knicks' locker room.
"The pain that you have been feeling can't compare to the joy that's coming ... Romans 8:18."
The message was designed to give hope to a Knicks team in the opening stages of a free fall, but the words take on a new meaning now for Carmelo Anthony as he heads to the Oklahoma City Thunder for Enes Kanter, Doug McDermott and a 2018 second-rounder.
It's a transaction that shakes up the NBA and makes a Western Conference power even more dangerous.
It was eerily similar in scope to the three-team, 12-player trade that sent Anthony to New York seven years ago.
In many ways, Anthony's legacy as a Knick can be summed up in the same way you'd describe these two trades: extremely complicated.
Early in the 2014-15 season -- a few months after Anthony signed a $124 million deal to remain with the New York Knicks -- he was already having second thoughts about his decision.
After one vexing home loss, Anthony shared his frustration with a few friends at the arena.
One friend summed up Anthony's mindset at the time: "He said he should've signed with Chicago."
It wasn't the last time Anthony questioned his decision to re-sign with the Knicks.
Over the next three seasons, it became clear that Anthony and New York, under team president Phil Jackson, were stuck in one of the NBA's most dysfunctional relationships.
So now that it's over, how do you unpack Anthony's time with the Knicks?
Editor's Picks Lowe: Most intriguing NBA players this season Zach Lowe highlights key faces in key places in his annual rundown of the NBA's most fascinating players and teams.
NBA mock draft: New lottery picks for Cavs, Bulls, Knicks There's a new leader in the crowded race for the No.
1 pick, as well as more movement in the top seven.
NBA draft assets for all 30 teams What upcoming draft picks does every NBA team owe and own?
Here's our team-by-team breakdown.
2 Related

Some will remember him as a ball-stopper whose preferred style of play ultimately impeded the Knicks' ability to win.
There's merit to that theory.
Others will hang on to the idea that Anthony never had a chance to truly succeed in New York because of the Knicks' perpetual roster and coaching instability.
There's plenty to support that point as well.
As is usually the case, the truth probably lies somewhere in between.
The raw results during Anthony's Knicks tenure aren't pretty.
New York never advanced past the second round of the playoffs, and the club missed the postseason entirely in each of the past four years.
The Knicks finished 207-269 during Anthony's six full seasons and went 1-3 in playoff series.
But how much of that was Anthony's fault?
His six-plus seasons in New York were filled with constant turnover.
A half-dozen executives and coaches were hired and fired during Anthony's tenure.
He had 72 different teammates in his past six seasons.
That's the sixth-highest total in the NBA in that span and 10 more players than the NBA average.
"I've had nightmares about that," Anthony said late last season.
If you want to start a fun argument among Knicks fans, ask them who Anthony's most talented Knicks teammate was.
Was it Amar'e Stoudemire?
Kristaps Porzingis?
Tyson Chandler?
A 40-year-old Jason Kidd?
Of course, Anthony's detractors will point to his isolation-heavy style of play as a reason for the revolving door of executives, coaches and players.
People around the Knicks will always question whether Anthony did enough with the hand he was dealt.
Carmelo Anthony has a chance to restart his career in Oklahoma City with Paul George and Russell Westbrook.
Adam Hunger-USA TODAY Sports

Multiple teammates over the years complained privately about the ball stopping in Anthony's hands.
They lamented his poor habits on defense.
(Last season, Anthony finished 66 out of 70 qualified small forwards in ESPN's defensive real plus-minus).
One veteran Knick went as far as telling friends that he "hated" sharing the floor with Anthony because of those traits.
But this wasn't a uniform opinion.
Anthony engendered loyalty among many of his teammates, particularly the younger Knicks.
One Knick last season told his agent that if Phil Jackson traded Anthony, he'd want to be dealt to the same team.
That loyalty, at times, went both ways.
Case in point: Shortly after Cleanthony Early was shot in the leg during a robbery attempt in his second season, Anthony told Early that if he were cut, he'd help ease any financial burden he incurred, according to people familiar with the matter.
"That was real," one teammate said.
Whatever goodwill Anthony built with teammates didn't always transfer to management.
Some in the Knicks' front office started to sour on Anthony when Porzingis emerged as a potential franchise player after his rookie season.
Several top members of Knicks management told associates that they felt they couldn't win with Anthony and that his habits would negatively affect Porzingis and the other young Knicks, according to sources.
That whisper campaign turned public, of course, late in the season when Jackson leveled public critiques -- some direct, and some indirect -- at Anthony.
Jackson openly stated his desire for Anthony to waive his no-trade clause, which complicated any potential deals.
Anthony was bewildered by the Knicks then-president's tactics.
He told friends that despite the embarrassing episodes on and off the court and the critiques from Jackson, he remained loyal to the organization.
He understood the responsibility that came with being the face of the franchise -- "You have to make every shot in this m-----f-----," he said once early on in his Knicks career -- and felt that he'd handled it well.
Anthony couldn't understand why Jackson didn't have the same type of loyalty toward him.
To most close observers, the beginning of the end for Anthony was March 12.
Knicks coach Jeff Hornacek lit into the team at halftime of a game that day against the Brooklyn Nets.
While Hornacek unloaded in an expletive-filled critique, Anthony sat in the corner.
Coaches giving R-rated critiques of their teams' play at halftime isn't unusual.
But something extraordinary happened that afternoon.
Thunderous Move: Melo To OKC Carmelo Anthony is headed west.
The 10-time All-Star is leaving NYC and will team up with Russell Westbrook and Paul George.
Woj: NYK gets Kanter, McDermott, pick

 Melo escapes NY, leaving mixed legacy

 Young: Post-KD, Thunder move quickly

 How NBA players reacted on Twitter

 Fantasy fallout: Trio value dinged

 Pelton: Trade grades in Melo deal

The normally laid-back Anthony -- his preferred social media hashtag is #StayMe7o -- was moved to respond.
And it wasn't pretty.
According to people familiar with the matter, Anthony said to no one in particular that "this whole thing" is a "joke" and added "f--- this place" loud enough for most in the room to hear.
Associate head coach Kurt Rambis responded to Anthony directly, asking him if he had anything to say to the group.
"Yeah I have something to say: This place is a f---ing joke," Anthony responded.
Rambis, using the same expletive-laden phrase, then questioned Anthony's effort.
Things didn't escalate from there, but it was clear to most around the team that Anthony was done with the Knicks.
In the ensuing weeks, Anthony was still thinking about staying in New York to remain close to his son amid a family situation and stay in the city that he comfortably called home.
He thought about leaving as well but was concerned about being seen as a player who "bounced around" during his career, according to people in touch with him at the time.
Still, Anthony kept coming back to the idea of starting over in a new city and with a new team -- a feeling that ultimately won out.
Anthony will start his new NBA life on the Thunder.
In OKC, he'll be paired with the kind of elite talent in Russell Westbrook and Paul George that he never shared the floor with in New York.
There's reason to believe that those two -- along with center Steven Adams -- can help bring out the deadly Team USA Melo whom observers have seen over the years.
Will it be enough to contend with the defending champion Golden State Warriors?
We'll begin to find out in a few months.
In the meantime, Anthony leaves behind more questions than answers in New York.
The club is looking to go young now and views its core of Porzingis, Tim Hardaway Jr., Frank Ntilikina and Willy Hernangomez as a strong foundation to build upon.
New additions Kanter and McDermott (both 25) fit that timeline as well.
But New York has a big void to fill with Anthony -- and his 22 points per game -- headed to the Thunder.
For Melo, it's a new start with a new team, but that old whiteboard message in the Knicks locker room still rings true.
Anthony felt plenty of pain amid all of the losing over the past three seasons in New York.
He won't be around to feel any of the joy that's coming -- if it ever does.
Maybe he'll finally find it in Oklahoma City.
Herm Edwards and Dan Graziano break down the Giants's chance against the Eagles this Sunday after two week of offensive struggles.
(2:32)

Taking a spin around the NFL to get you ready for Week 3, starting with a look at high-powered offenses that are underperforming:

The big questions

Can the Giants get their season on track?
The boos reverberated through MetLife Stadium on Monday night, following the New York Giants into their locker room midway through what became a deflating 24-10 loss to the Detroit Lions on national television.
The Giants, seen by some as a playoff contender heading into the season, are 0-2, with an offense that can't seem to do anything right.
And now they'll travel to face a Philadelphia Eagles team that has nearly a 70 percent chance of winning in Week 3, according to ESPN's Football Power Index.
Giants defensive end Jason Pierre-Paul called this "a must-win game," and it's the offense that will have to step up.
New York's offensive funk stretches further than this season.
The Giants have gone seven consecutive games -- eight, if you include the playoffs -- without scoring 20 points, a streak they have not topped since the late 1970s, according to ESPN Stats & Information.
In those seven games, they have managed eight touchdowns and 13.1 points per game, all last in the NFL.
A healthy Odell Beckham Jr. can fix a lot but not everything.
He can't fix the Giants' leaky pass protection, and he probably can't fix a running game that has totaled 97 yards in the first two games.
Still: There's a lot of talent on this offense, and it doesn't seem as though any team is running away from the NFC East.
Giants offensive lineman Justin Pugh has a message for the fans: "Stick with us.
Don't turn your backs on us just yet.
Just give us a chance here."
Can coach Ben McAdoo, left, and star wideout Odell Beckham Jr. do anything to get the Giants out of their offensive doldrums?
Al Bello/Getty Images

The Seahawks' offense is better than this ... right?
Let's go out on a limb here and say that it is.
The Seahawks, with 21 points through their first two games, have scored a touchdown in only one of their five trips to the red zone.
Their receivers have dropped 6.3 percent of their passes, the fifth-highest mark in the NFL.
These don't figure to be recurring issues.
And there's one notable positive here: Seventh-round pick Chris Carson seemingly has emerged as a productive runner, adding an unexpected layer of depth to the Seahawks' backfield.
But, yeah, that offensive line.
Russell Wilson has been sacked or put under duress on 39 percent of his dropbacks, the third-highest mark in the league.
Some of that is caused by holding on to the ball a little longer than most, but more of it stems from an offensive line that didn't improve enough over the offseason.
Wilson himself hasn't been good, either.
He has a 40.9 Total QBR (23rd among 32 qualified quarterbacks) and a 56.1 percent completion rate (29th).
He has completed only 31.8 percent of his passes when throwing more than 10 yards downfield, after completing 53.5 percent of such attempts from 2012 to 2016.
Not good, but obviously there's a track record that suggests Wilson will be better.
The Seahawks face a tough road test against the Tennessee Titans, but Wilson says he thinks the Seahawks' offense is only "a few plays away."
How does Ezekiel Elliott bounce back?
Elliott rushed for 104 yards in Week 1, then gained a career-low 8 yards on nine carries for the Dallas Cowboys in Week 2.
Research from the Elias Sports Bureau says Elliott is only the fourth defending rushing champion in the past 40 years to have a game in which he averaged less than 1 yard per carry.
But it isn't just his production on the ground.
It's the pending legal issues that could keep Elliott out of six games, either this season or the next.
And now there are all those questions about his effort after he failed to hustle on a couple of interceptions.
Cowboys Nation is freaking out, people.
But let's put this in perspective a little bit: Elliott ran for only 51 yards in his first game of 2016, then fumbled twice in his second.
Then, well, he went nuts, and it helped quarterback Dak Prescott turn in an equally impressive rookie season.
Prescott needs more of the same now.
Defenses are continuing to load up the box and force Prescott to throw more often than ever.
He has thrown at least 39 times in each of his two games this season, after doing that in only two of 16 games last season.
His Total QBR has gone from 78.8 to 54.5 as a second-year player.
The Cowboys are coming off managing only 268 net yards in a 42-17 blowout loss to the Denver Broncos, and now they'll visit an Arizona Cardinals outfit that allowed a mere 4.79 yards per play last season.
"We're a very strong team," Elliott said earlier this week.
"I think we respond well with adversity."
Numbers that matter

20.15: The points per game, per team, through the first two weeks of this season (not including the combined 80 the Los Angeles Rams and San Francisco 49ers scored Thursday).
It's the lowest rate through the first two weeks since 2010.
In those two weeks, the average Total QBR was 48.8 and the passing-touchdown rate was 3.7 percent.
Both were the lowest through the first two weeks since 2006.
2.8: The Steelers' rushing yards per attempt so far.
It's the worst mark in the league and the fourth-lowest rate in franchise history through the first two games of a season in the wild-card era (since 1990).
Le'Veon Bell, who held out until the day after the preseason finale, has rushed for 119 yards on 37 attempts.
Thirty-two running backs averaged more yards per carry than Bell through the first two weeks.
2: The number of times the reigning Super Bowl-champion quarterback has ever matched up against the reigning college football-national champion quarterback.
The first meeting?
Aaron Rodgers against a rookie named Cam Newton in Week 2 of the 2011 season.
The second?
Set for Sunday, in the Patriots-Texans game, when decorated champion Tom Brady squares off against touted rookie Deshaun Watson.
0: The number of touchdowns allowed by the Panthers in their first two games.
If they somehow do it again, against a high-powered Saints offense, they'll join some very rare company.
Since the forward pass was allowed in 1933, only two teams have not allowed a touchdown in each of their first three games, according to Elias.
They are the 1934 Lions (seven straight games) and the 1937 Bears (three straight).
15,674: The Dolphins' airline mileage through their first three games.
Miami won't play its first home game until Week 5 because of Hurricane Irma.
Before then, they will have traveled for road games against the Chargers (4,664 round-trip miles) and Jets (2,168 miles).
Then they're at "home" in London to host the Saints, which constitutes an 8,842-mile trip.
Don't forget: They already had their bye in Week 1.
What we'll be talking about after Week 3

The AFC West is as good as it gets

The Broncos, Oakland Raiders and Kansas City Chiefs are all 2-0, and a mere five points -- more specifically, a more accurate kicker -- is the difference between the Los Angeles Chargers being 0-2 instead of 2-0.
In short, all the AFC West teams are good.
We all knew the Broncos' defense would be good, but Trevor Siemian already has thrown for six touchdowns and C.J.
Anderson already has run for 199 yards.
The Chiefs, who face the Chargers this week, are the only team in the NFL with both an offense and a defense ranked in the top 10, according to FPI.
The Raiders are averaging an NFL-best 30.5 points per game and have yet to turn the ball over.
This might be it in New Orleans, Arizona

By the end of Week 3, it could be clearer than ever that this year signifies the end of the road for two of the NFL's most prolific coach-quarterback combinations -- Drew Brees and Sean Payton of the Saints and Carson Palmer and Bruce Arians of the Cardinals.
The Saints, looking to avoid their third consecutive 0-3 start, are hindered largely by a defense that ranks last in the NFL in efficiency by a wide margin.
They are only the sixth unit of the Super Bowl era to allow 1,000 yards over the first two games of a season.
The Cardinals should continue to have a hard time recovering from the long-term loss of star running back David Johnson, who led the NFL in yards from scrimmage last year.
Johnson's absence puts way too much pressure on Palmer (37 years old) and Larry Fitzgerald (34).
It could get ugly there too.
Aaron Rodgers can't do this alone

What you need to know in the NFL

 Statistics

 Scoreboard

 2017 schedule, results

 Standings

Rodgers can do amazing things, but even he has his limits.
This week might offer a good example.
On Friday, the Packers listed seven players -- seven -- as doubtful for their Sunday game against the Cincinnati Bengals.
Six of them are starters: wide receiver Randall Cobb, left tackle David Bakhtiari, defensive tackle Mike Daniels, cornerback Davon House, outside linebacker Nick Perry and inside linebacker Jake Ryan.
Two others, wide receiver Jordy Nelson and right tackle Bryan Bulaga, were questionable.
With both of his starting tackles out in Week 2, Rodgers' average pass traveled 4.8 yards past the line of scrimmage, his shortest average since October 2014.
He has thrown only 23 passes with both Nelson and Cobb off the field the past two seasons, and that is a very real possibility in Week 3.
There's also this: The Bengals are the only team Rodgers has never beaten.
NFL Nation reporters predict the outcomes and scores for Sunday's and Monday's Week 3 games.
PickCenter

The Ravens are the third team since 1970 -- and first since the 1992 Pittsburgh Steelers -- to record four or more interceptions in each of the first two games of a season.
Jaguars quarterback Blake Bortles has thrown an NFL-worst 53 interceptions since entering the league in 2014.
Big advantage, Baltimore.
Ravens 28, Jaguars 17 -- Jamison Hensley

This is not exactly an advantageous matchup for the Jaguars.
The Ravens have forced a league-high 10 turnovers (eight interceptions), and Bortles has turned over the ball an NFL-high 66 times since the beginning of the 2014 season (with 53 of those interceptions).
Expect Baltimore to do what Tennessee did last week: stack the box, minimize Leonard Fournette's success and make the Jaguars put the game in Bortles' hands.
It worked for the Titans and it'll work again in Week 3.
Ravens 21, Jaguars 7 -- Mike DiRocco

PickCenter

Coach Vance Joseph said he doesnt believe in trap games," but this one fits the profile: an 11 a.m. kickoff on Denver time following an attention-grabbing victory over the Dallas Cowboys and falling the week before an AFC West showdown with the Oakland Raiders.
The Broncos do have the look of a balanced team in the early going; they led the league in rushing after two games, quarterback Trevor Siemian was tied for the touchdown-pass lead and the defense was No.
4 overall.
Broncos 23, Bills 9 -- Jeff Legwold

There are two factors that could keep the Bills in this game: Their defense is allowing 0.95 points per opponent drive, fourth in the NFL, and they have a positive turnover margin (plus-1).
The problem for Buffalo will be trying to play from behind, which is likely against a Broncos offense that has averaged 3.18 points per drive in the first half, fourth in the NFL and significantly higher than the Bills' 0.70 rate.
One of the items on coach Sean McDermott's needs analysis this week is his receivers winning more one-on-one matchups, and that will be extremely difficult for Jordan Matthews and Zay Jones to do against Aqib Talib and Chris Harris.
Broncos 21, Bills 13 -- Mike Rodak

PickCenter

The Saints have a lot of issues on defense, but the biggest one has been allowing explosive plays down the field.
According to ESPN Stats & Information, opponents are 14-of-16 on throws of 15-plus yards, with more touchdowns (three) than incompletions.
The good news is Carolina isnt built to exploit that, particularly without tight end Greg Olsen.
But the Saints secondary could be even more depleted with cornerbacks Marshon Lattimore and Sterling Moore both questionable with injuries.
And Carolina will almost certainly try to confuse New Orleans inexperienced young defense with misdirection and versatile weapons such as Cam Newton and Christian McCaffrey.
Panthers 26, Saints 22 -- Mike Triplett

Despite being 2-0, the Panthers have struggled to finish drives.
What better team to finish them against than the Saints, who rank last in the NFL in total defense (512.5 yards per game) and next to last in scoring defense (32.5 points per game).
The Panthers have averaged 34 points in their past five games against New Orleans.
They also have the league's stingiest defense after two games.
Panthers 34, Saints 17 -- David Newton

PickCenter

The Steelers have five losses to teams with losing records since 2014 and have grown tired of the narrative that they play down to competition.
Pittsburgh's run-stopping defense should match up well with the Bears, who rank 24th in rushing and don't have a completion longer than 22 yards.
The Steelers are still waiting to break out on offense, while Chicago is playing without its top three receivers.
Steelers 24, Bears 17 -- Jeremy Fowler

The Bears lack of firepower on offense -- tied for 25th in points per game (12.0) -- hurts them on Sunday.
Pittsburghs defense has been its strength -- third overall and third in yards per play (3.89) through two games.
Bears receiver Markus Wheaton and guard Kyle Long likely make their season debuts, but there's not much optimism Chicago can outscore Ben Roethlisberger & Co. Steelers 24, Bears 13 -- Jeff Dickerson

PickCenter

In the battle of coed church-league basketball teammates, Matt Ryan and Matthew Stafford both could end up making the difference for their respective teams.
While Stafford is tied for the league lead with six touchdown passes, Ryan has thrown for 22 touchdowns with no interceptions over his past nine games, including the playoffs.
He might feel a little pressure, particularly if starting right tackle Ryan Schraeder (concussion) is unable to go.
But Ryan has enough weapons, led by Julio Jones, to give a solid Lions defense fits.
Falcons 31, Lions 24 -- Vaughn McClure

The Lions have been better than expected this season: 2-0 for the first time since 2011 and with a team that has offensive and defensive talent.
And, yes, the Lions are at home this week.
But there are three things that are concerning against the Falcons: The Lions are on a short week; Jarrad Davis and Tavon Wilson, two key defensive starters, are not locks to play; and the Atlanta offense is better than anything Detroit has seen so far this season.
Detroit should keep it close -- it is, after all, what the Lions do in the Jim Caldwell era.
But the Falcons just have a bit too much talent in the end, with Austin Hooper being the surprise key player while Davis and Wilson are banged up.
Falcons 31, Lions 27 -- Mike Rothstein

PickCenter

Something has to give in this game between two winless teams, and the Browns actually enter it with an edge at quarterback.
DeShone Kizer has at least had a training camp and preseason to learn the system, and the Browns' defense should be enough to deal with Jacoby Brissett in his second Colts start.
Coach Hue Jackson needs this win desperately, and he gets it.
Browns 17, Colts 10 -- Pat McManamon

The positive is that one of these teams has to win ... unless, of course, they tie.
Owner Jim Irsay suddenly has been pushing patience when it comes to a rebuild with the Colts.
But a loss to the Browns, who have won only once in their past 21 games, likely will test Irsay's patience.
The Colts played with more confidence offensively against Arizona in Week 2.
Brissett has another week under his belt as starting quarterback, and receivers T.Y.
Hilton and Donte Moncrief are in position for bounce-back games after disappointing performances against the Cardinals.
Coach Chuck Pagano avoids starting 0-3 for the first time.
Colts 24, Browns 16 -- Mike Wells

PickCenter

It might seem like a gift for the Bucs not having to go against Teddy Bridgewater and possibly missing Sam Bradford too.
But Vikings backup quarterback Case Keenum is 2-0 against the Bucs over the past two seasons.
That's a topic that has been brought up a lot in the defensive meeting rooms this week.
Another concern?
The possibility of not having middle linebacker Kwon Alexander when facing Minnesota rookie running back Dalvin Cook.
This will be a big test to see just how much the Bucs' defense has improved against the deep ball and against the run, two areas of focus this offseason.
Bucs 24, Vikings 19 -- Jenna Laine

The way Bradfords knee reacts to practice will determine whether he can power through and play Sunday, and theres a chance he wont know if hes ready to go until the day of the game.
The Vikings look like a different team without him, but even so, have some faith that Minnesota isnt going to commit 11 penalties for 131 yards in back-to-back games, after seeing many of the infractions pave the way for Pittsburgh's scoring drives in Week 2.
Keenum has had success against Tampa Bay the past two seasons (with the Rams) and knows the Bucs' defense, but his pocket presence and timing will determine whether he can orchestrate the offensive attack needed to win.
Bucs 21, Vikings 14 -- Courtney Cronin

PickCenter

The Bill OBrien-led Texans have never won at Gillette Stadium, and thats not going to change on Sunday.
Houston's defense gave Tom Brady and the Patriots trouble in the playoffs (Brady was 18-of-38 for 287 yards with two touchdowns and two interceptions), but its offense still isnt good enough to outscore Brady at home.
Patriots 28, Texans 13 -- Sarah Barshop

The Texans have the defensive personnel to slow down the Patriots, specifically with a good pass rush up the middle when they bring ends Jadeveon Clowney and Whitney Mercilus over center David Andrews.
But in the end, the Patriots will have too much firepower, as they never have lost to a rookie quarterback at home under coach Bill Belichick (8-0).
Patriots 30, Texans 24 -- Mike Reiss

PickCenter

Miami has won four of its past five meetings against the Jets at MetLife Stadium.
Miami's offense and quarterback Jay Cutler showed flashes in Week 2 but could have a breakout game.
The Jets allowed more points (66) than anyone in the NFL through two games.
Dolphins 28, Jets 17 -- James Walker

The Jets' best chance to win is to stop running back Jay Ajayi, shifting the onus to the turnover-prone Cutler.
Problem is, it's hard to trust the Jets' run defense, which has yielded a combined 370 yards in two games.
On the other side, the Jets will have problems with Miami's front four, especially if guard Brian Winters (abdomen) doesn't play.
Defensive end Cameron Wake is a Jet killer: seven sacks and four forced fumbles in 15 games.
The Jets will be 0-3 for the first time since 2003.
Dolphins 24, Jets 20 -- Rich Cimini

PickCenter

You need to look really hard with the blue-tinted glasses to find a victory for the Giants in this one after what they've showed the first two games.
And this is the Eagles' home opener.
The matchup isn't good, either.
If Justin Pugh had to describe the Eagles' front seven in one word, "relentless" would be his choice.
That's not promising for a Giants offensive line that has struggled badly once again this season.
It's no accident the Eagles and their multi-layered pass rush have dominated this series lately, winning five of the past six meetings.
The Giants' offensive line can't handle their relentless pressure.
It's the same Sunday.
Eagles 19, Giants 12 -- Jordan Raanan

Desperate teams are dangerous teams, and the 0-2 Giants fit the description.
But the Eagles' strength -- their defensive line -- will go head-to-head against the Giants' weakness, their offensive front.
That's a matchup that will be difficult for New York to overcome, no matter how bad it needs this one.
Eagles 24, Giants 17 -- Tim McManus

PickCenter

The Seahawks believe some of the issues that held their offense back in Week 2 -- dropped passes and some uncharacteristic inaccuracy from Russell Wilson -- are easily correctable.
But their offensive line very much remains a question mark, and it has a tough matchup against a Dick LeBeau-led defense that is sure to bring all sorts of pressure.
The Seahawks might need to rely again on their star-studded defense, which has been as good as advertised while allowing only 26 points through the first two games.
That group has allowed only four completions on throws more than 10 yards downfield, tied for second in the NFL, according to ESPN Stats & Information.
If the Seahawks can continue to limit explosive plays in the passing game and find even a few of them on offense, it should be enough to grind out another win.
Seahawks 17, Titans 14 -- Brady Henderson

The Titans' defense knows the chaos surrounding the Seahawks' offense and struggling offensive line -- just 21 points and allowing 16 quarterback hits through two games -- but they've talked all week about Russell Wilson's legs and ability to extend plays as if he were like Michael Vick.
Tennessee will try to use its running attack to control the flow of the game, and it helps that Seattle has to deal with a cross-country trip to much warmer weather.
Unfamiliarity might be a deciding factor, as Wilson (124.5) and Marcus Mariota (121.1) lead the NFL in passer rating during interconference games since Mariota entered the NFL.
This is the type of game -- being a narrow home favorite against a consistent contender -- Tennessee needs to win to reach its next plateau.
Titans 20, Seahawks 16 -- Cameron Wolfe

PickCenter

The Bengals' defense is playing as well as anyone's, but if the offense can't score, Cincinnati is not going to get very far, especially at Lambeau Field.
The Bengals are in a state of disarray after firing offensive coordinator Ken Zampese.
The schedule gets easier after this, but this is a tough spot for them.
Packers 21, Bengals 9 -- Katherine Terrell

The Bengals have yet to score a touchdown this season.
The Packers didn't allow one in their home opener against the Seahawks.
Yes, the Packers are banged up on defense and couldn't slow down the Falcons in Atlanta last Sunday night, but the punchless Bengals shouldn't overly tax them even if they don't have perhaps their best pass-rusher in Nick Perry (hand).
Aaron Rodgers should complete the NFL sweep by beating the last team he has never won against.
Packers 27, Bengals 13 -- Rob Demovsky

PickCenter

The Chiefs know how to beat divisional rivals.
They spent practice time as far back as the offseason reviewing video and practicing for their three AFC West opponents.
The results are there.
The Chiefs have won 11 straight in the division and six in a row against Sundays opponent, the Los Angeles Chargers.
In those games, the Chiefs usually have defended Philip Rivers well; he has five TD passes, seven interceptions and a passer rating of 74.6.
Even without two injured starters in the secondary, one being safety Eric Berry, the Chiefs will again find a way to win.
Chiefs 27, Chargers 24 -- Adam Teicher

This one should be a back-and-forth affair with two of the more explosive offenses in the league matching up.
However, the Chargers havent defeated the Chiefs since 2013, and quarterback Alex Smith is playing at a high level.
The Chargers have struggled to run the ball, averaging just 54 yards per game.
If they can get Melvin Gordon going and keep Kansas Citys offense off the field, the Chargers have a punchers chance.
Chiefs 30, Chargers 27 -- Eric Williams

PickCenter

Marshawn Lynch's dance party was a regional thing, the Oakland-born and -bred running back getting "hyphy" with and for the East Bay crowd.
Now, it's time to take things to a national, prime-time level.
Confidence is high in Oakland with the Raiders' first 2-0 start since 2002, when they opened up 4-0, and simply put, they match up well against Washington.
Khalil Mack has eight sacks in his past nine games against NFC foes, and tight end Jared Cook lit up Washington last season while with Green Bay to the tune of 105 receiving yards and a touchdown.
Expect more of the same under the bright lights.
Raiders 27, Redskins 16 -- Paul Gutierrez

The Redskins will move the ball on Oakland's defense, which yields 4.8 yards per carry and is 21st in the NFL in allowing 5.3 yards per play.
The Redskins are coming off a strong run performance with 229 yards versus the Rams, and they feel their passing attack is this close to making big plays.
The problem: Oakland's diversified offense will be too much for a young but improving defense.
The stat to know: The Raiders lead the NFL with 263 yards after contact; the Redskins' defense ranks 26th in yards after contact allowed (172).
Raiders 28, Redskins 24 -- John Keim

PickCenter

Dak Prescott has not lost back-to-back regular-season games in his young career, but the Cowboys quarterback's work on the road in his past three full contests has not gone well for him.
Four of his six career interceptions have come in losses at the Giants and in Week 2 at Denver.
Last season, Prescott followed up his worst showing at New York with one of his best, completing 88.9 percent of his passes in a victory against Tampa Bay.
What helped that night was Ezekiel Elliott running for a career-high 159 yards.
Elliott has to have a similar game Monday.
Cowboys 30, Cardinals 27 -- Todd Archer

The Cardinals have won the past four games against the Cowboys, including their past three at home.
But Arizona's offense has struggled to get off to fast starts this season, gaining just 95 yards and scoring 10 points in two first quarters thus far.
The Cards will have to face an eager Cowboys team coming off a dismal loss to the Broncos.
Neither team has been impressive in the early part of this season, but the Cardinals are still learning how to play without injured David Johnson, and his absence will be quite obvious on Monday night.
Cowboys 31, Cardinals 17 -- Josh Weinfuss
4 Penn State avoids the upset as Trace McSorley finds Juwan Johnson in the end zone for a seven-yard touchdown with no time remaining to give the Nittany Lions a 21-19 win.
(1:58)

IOWA CITY, Iowa -- Juwan Johnson lined up on the right side of the line, with fellow Penn State receivers DaeSean Hamilton and DeAndre Thompkins on the left.
Tight end Mike Gesicki stood behind Johnson and drew Iowa linebacker Bo Bower out of the play.
The Hawkeyes, on fourth-and-goal from the 7-yard line with four seconds to play and clinging to a four-point lead, sent six defenders toward Penn State quarterback Trace McSorley, including blitzing linebackers Ben Niemann and Josey Jewell.
OK, now rewind to early in the fourth quarter.
Johnson noticed that Iowa safety Miles Taylor was jumping to the outside in coverage.
So the sophomore wideout informed Josh Gattis, the Nittany Lions' receivers coach, that he could run a post route and beat Taylor deep.
Johnson had caught hundreds of those balls, after all, over the summer and in practice already this season.
Juwan Johnson had a feeling that his game-winning post route would be open when Penn State needed it to be.
Jeffrey Becker/USA TODAY Sports

But from the 7-yard line?
On fourth down, with the game and Penn State's unbeaten season in the balance?
"I said, 'I need a post.
I think I can get him,'" Johnson said.
"They finally called it the last play.
It was just like another JUGS machine."
He came off the line fast.
Too fast, in fact, requiring McSorley to put extra zip on the throw as the 6-foot-4 Johnson dashed to the outside -- taking Taylor with him -- and streaked inward toward the goal post.
"I wanted to put it high in a spot where only Juwan could get it and [where] it would fit through a tight window," McSorley said.
So it was a good thing that the junior QB delivered the ball especially firm.
Because as Johnson flashed open in the end zone, Iowa's Amani Hooker ran in front of him, jumping high in a bid to deflect the pass.
He just missed.
"My eyes just followed the ball the whole time," said left tackle Ryan Bates, who pushed Niemann off the edge to keep McSorley safe.
"And then there was [Hooker].
He jumped up.
I was like, 'Oh s---.'
But it went over his head."
Johnson cradled it near the back of the end zone, the decisive touchdown as time expired in Penn State's 21-19 victory at Kinnick Stadium -- a thrilling finish to a game in which the Nittany Lions outgained Iowa 579-273 but needed a 12-play, 80-yard drive over the final 1:42 to escape with a win.
Penn State had a first-and-goal from the 10 before McSorley hit Gesicki for a 3-yard gain.
Two incompletions followed, passes thrown to Thompkins and Hamilton.
The Nittany Lions called timeout before the final play.
They needed to talk it through.
"It was clearly going to be the last play of the game," Penn State coach James Franklin said.
"We felt like, with Juwan, we had a height advantage and could kind of slip him through the middle of the field.
"At that moment, the worst thing you can have is a lot of people talking.
So we want to be calm and poised in those situations."
Johnson described the discussion on the sideline as something of a playground scenario.
"I guess you can say that," the receiver said.
"We don't mind playing backyard football."
Offensive coordinator Joe Moorhead made the call.
Johnson and Hamilton were the primary targets.
Left guard Steven Gonzalez and right tackle Will Fries blocked the Iowa defensive ends, both of whom had been disruptive.
Running back Saquon Barkley, who rushed for 214 yards on 28 carries and caught 12 passes for 94 yards, stayed in the pocket to pick up Jewell, the Hawkeyes' All-America candidate in the middle of the defense.
It all went according to script.
"Juwan ran a great route," McSorley said.
It was nothing he hadn't done hundreds of times in practice.
And when he caught the ball?
"I kind of blanked out," Johnson said.
"It was kind of like, 'I can't believe it happened.'
But I know it can happen, I've been practicing it for so long.
It's kind of like a dream."
HOUSTON -- After the 2001 Yankees lost the World Series to the Diamondbacks on Luis Gonzalezs broken-bat hit in the bottom of the ninth inning, a lot of the Yankees players were circumspect in defeat.
Arizona had generally dominated the Yankees for the majority of that World Series, and New York was somewhat fortunate to even be in position to have a shot at a fourth consecutive title.
Additionally, some of the older members of the dynasty understood that this would be the end for them; it was the last game ever played by Paul ONeill and Scott Brosius, the last game for Tino Martinez and Chuck Knoblauch before they reached free agency.
Even Mariano Rivera -- who allowed the Gonzalez hit -- spoke evenly, in defeat.
Not Derek Jeter.
Afterward, teammates recalled him stewing in the athletic trainers room -- where he nursed what would be diagnosed as a broken foot -- and absolutely furious over the defeat, enraged by the fact that the Yankees had lost despite being just a few outs away.
His competitiveness and confidence were at the core of what made him great as a player and will undoubtedly drive him as he assumes control of the Miami Marlins' business and baseball operations.
According to the Miami Herald, he has already dictated change, pushing out longtime Marlins staffers Jack McKeon, Tony Perez, Andre Dawson and Jeff Conine.
Perez and Dawson are Hall of Famers who have been with the Marlins for many years, and they were fired over the phone.
Perez was the only Cuban-American staffer in their baseball operations department and was dumped almost a year to the day that Jose Fernandez died.
Jeter has not commented publicly on the decisions and may not until his group is formally approved by other baseball owners.
Hall of Famers Andre Dawson and Tony Perez are among those losing their jobs with the change of regimes in Miami.
AP Photo/Wilfredo Lee

Even before Jeter finished his playing career, he had made it known to others that he wanted to own a baseball team someday, and it makes sense that Major League Baseball would want Jeter in a role like this.
He was a superstar player, well-known to casual fans, and he would seem to have as good of a shot as anyone not named The Rock to rebrand the Marlins franchise.
But as Jeter begins his second career, two questions nag for me:

Why would Jeter want to take on the Marlins problems?
Since hes the man in charge -- and far more than a complementary figure -- how prepared is Jeter to handle what might be baseballs most complicated set of obstacles?
Because having a unique ability to hit the other way and excel in October baseball doesnt necessarily translate into business success.
Others who have seen the Marlins books all say the same thing: The unpopular franchise is saturated with debt.
The clubs current television contract runs out in a few years, and its unclear how much growth the Marlins can expect, given the clubs struggles on the field.
A lot of Miami baseball fans have been unhappy with the way that the teams relatively new ballpark was funded, and they have stayed away from a place that isnt easy to access before games and isnt easy to leave on those rare nights when a sizable crowd appears.
The challenge facing Jeter and the incoming owners is to completely alter a communitys perception of the organization, and change ingrained habits of fans.
Right away, Jeter and his group have an enormous and almost impossible quandary.
A lot of the clubs debt is tied to the heavily backloaded contract of record-setting slugger Giancarlo Stanton, who will make $295 million over the next 10 years.
If the Marlins keep Stanton, they may have too little payroll left over with which to maneuver and build a winner.
If the Marlins trade Stanton -- who is likely to finish first, second or third in the NL MVP race -- theyll tear open old scars for Miami fans frustrated by years of seeing their best young players, such as Miguel Cabrera, traded away.
Additionally, the work of dealing Stanton will be difficult in itself, because the Marlins might have to choose between eating a lot of money or taking a deal with few prospects just to dump the onerous contract.
The Marlins are a mess.
If this were a horse race, Jeter has bought into a fat nag with a bad leg.
Through Jeters star power, he has been able to somehow convince folks with a lot of money to allow him to assume day-to-day control of the franchise without much of his own dollars at stake, so hes taking very little financial risk.
However, Jeter has one shot to form a first impression as a baseball executive and part-owner.
Hell assume the challenge with his full complement of competitiveness and with confidence, and time will tell if he has the business acumen needed for this incredible task, or whether he has bet on a loser that will pull under his reputation as a businessman.
If Jeter in fact outsourced the firing of highly respected, well-known, modestly paid employees, he has made his first mistake under circumstances in which hell have very little margin for error.
Launch angle hitters are in trouble

Joey Votto sharpened his command of the strike zone to even greater heights.
Is there a lesson there for other hitters?
Shelley Lipton/Icon Sportswire

The electronic strike zone would crush a generation of launch-angle hitters.
A really smart executive asked a really smart rhetorical question the other day as he discussed the high rate of home runs and strikeouts: If a hitter trains himself to angle his swing upward, what is the highest pitch he can consistently reach within the strike zone?
He wasnt referring to the likes of Kris Bryant, who developed his unusual swing as a child, or Josh Donaldson, who has a special ability to lift the ball.
He was talking about the average major leaguer, and he answered his own question.
If youre talking about getting to the ball with an angled swing, the executive continued, the highest -- the highest -- might be mid-thigh, or at the [groin].
With that kind of swing, the executive continued, the launch-angle hitters are effectively conceding the upper half of the strike zone in an era in which umpires are calling more high strikes -- and are graded on properly calling the high strike.
Its not working for the hitters, said the executive, who believes, like many players, coaches and managers, that the baseballs are smaller and harder this year.
Home runs are way up, but I think thats the ball.
How about making contact?
How about putting the ball in play?
Last week, MLB hitters smashed the record for most homers in a season, crushing the mark set in 2000, in the heart of what will always be remembered as the steroid era.
In that 2000 season, 101 batters hit 20 or more homers.
This year, 111 batters have 20 or more homers, with a week to go.
But theres a flip side to the homers this year: the explosion of strikeouts.
During the 2000 season, 58 batters had 100 or more strikeouts.
In 2017, 126 batters have 100 or more strikeouts.
These times are different, of course.
Pitchers throw harder than they used to, and front offices prefer to use hard-throwing relievers rather than allow a lot of starting pitchers to face a lineup for a third time within a game.
But a lot of evaluators believe that many players would be better served by trying to make contact instead of trying to angle their swings and hit a fly ball.
Many players love to pick the brain of Reds first baseman Joey Votto, who is generally regarded as perhaps the smartest hitter in the game.
On a podcast recently, Votto talked about how he came into this year devoted to the task of cutting down on his strikeouts.
Votto had racked up 135 strikeouts in 2015 and 120 in 2016, and in his effort to reduce that this year, Votto decided to cut down on his swing as he got deeper into the count -- choking up a little more after one strike, and even more on two-strike counts.
At times, Votto seems to wield his bat like a tennis player at the net, volleying pitches foul just to stay alive.
The change in his walk/strike ratios has been exceptional:

Year Walks Rate Strikeouts Rate 2015 143 20.6% 135 19.4% 2016 108 16.0% 120 17.7% 2017 129 19.2% 78 11.6%

He is one of only three MLB batters qualified for the batting title who have walk/strikeout ratios of 1/1 or better, and along the way Votto has compiled 35 homers, the second-most in his career.
As detailed in a recent column, the rise in home run hitters may well diminish the value of that particular skill in the trade and free-agent market.
And heres another concern: If the electronic strike zone is implemented in the near future, with a higher ceiling than what has been called by most umpires, a generation of hitters who have designed their swings to lift the ball may be much more vulnerable.
I think theyre [in trouble] anyway, said one MLB staffer.
Pitchers are going to continue to carve them up.
They are selling out for a home run  I would take gap power with hitters who have the ability to make adjustments.
This launch angle thing is terrible for the game.
Somebody is going to make a lot of money in the next few years as the launch-angle fixer: the hitting instructor who takes a page from Votto and teaches pupils to hit the ball hard and be able to cover more than the lowest portion of the strike zone.
Around the league

The debate about whether to extend the netting at major league ballparks effectively ended when three teams announced Thursday that they would do so.
Now teams that arent committed to netting beyond the dugout cede the public-relations high ground, but those clubs also are at increased liability, as one baseball official noted, because of the tacit acknowledgment of the risk that has occurred: If youre the only team that hasnt extended its netting and somebody gets seriously hurt because of it, how can you argue [in court] that you didnt contribute to the risk?
About the composition of the baseballs and the pervasive belief among a lot of players and staffers that they are different in 2017: Earlier this season, a veteran National League pitcher held out two baseballs that he said he had saved from his previous start, and he noted the obvious physical difference between them.
One was notably smaller than the other.The same pitcher mentioned last week that he has taken to simply tossing aside the baseballs that he finds to be smaller than normal.
Im probably throwing out 40 percent of the balls Im given [by the umpire], he said.
Ive been holding baseballs my whole life, and I know what theyre supposed to feel like.
Over the All-Star break, Dodgers outfielder Andre Ethier talked with his wife about trying to push through the injury and discomfort he has felt in an effort to come back in 2017.
Maggie Ethier knows a whole lot about competition: She was a gymnast earlier in life.
Youve got nothing to lose, she told her husband, and last weekend, Andre Ethier related that conversation in explaining his current mindset.
Hes in the last days of his long-term deal with the Dodgers, and Ethier, 35, knows that the market for an aging hitter who has had only 55 plate appearances the past two years wont be robust this winter.
So hes working through his ailments and focusing on doing whatever he can to help the 2017 Dodgers -- and is intent on embracing whatever opportunity presents itself.
Its possible that hell get some time as the left fielder in the postseason, and its possible that hell be used as a pinch hitter -- as he was the other day, when he mashed an opposite-field homer to help beat the Phillies.
When Bernie Williams began his career with the Yankees, Gene Michael protected him -- from some bullying by teammates over Williamss glasses and quiet demeanor and from owner George Steinbrenner, who grew frustrated during the slow start to the center fielders career.
When Michaels memorial service was held the other day, Williams was in attendance.
Baseball Tonight Podcast

Friday: Ross Atkins, Blue Jays GM, on the plans for Josh Donaldson, the area of need for 2018, and the work of fixing Aaron Sanchezs blister issue; Karl Ravech on the issue of netting at ballparks, and the AL Wild Card race; and Jessica Mendoza on the Brewers and Cubs.
Thursday: Astros manager A.J.
Hinch, on the conversations leading up to the Justin Verlander trade, and the impact of the former Cy Young Award winner; Boog Sciambi on the foul ball that hit a young girl Wednesday and the fallout; and Keith Law on the Dodgers bullpen and Jake Arrieta.
Wednesday: Eric Thames of the Brewers on why his team is like "The Bad News Bears"; Oaklands Matt Chapman, about his defensive work and about playing wiffle ball with Nolan Arenado as a kid; Tim Kurkjian on the launch angle fad; and Paul Hembekides on the home run record.
Tuesday: Keith Law on the impact of the exploding home run numbers; Sarah Langs plays the Numbers Game; and Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald on the Marlins sale and the plans for Giancarlo Stanton.
Monday: Nationals catcher Matt Wieters and Jerry Crasnick on the Dodgers and Nationals, and the punishment handed down for the Red Sox; and Todd Radom picks the second-best MLB logo of all time before his weekly quiz.
And today will be better than yesterday.
In an extremely tight fight, Jorge Linares retained the lightweight world championship by split decision against Luke Campbell on Saturday night before 4,125 at The Forum in Inglewood, California.
Two judges scored the fight for Linares, 115-112 and 114-113, while one had it 115-113 for Campbell.
ESPN.com also scored the fight 115-112 for Linares, who scored a second-round knockdown.
Without the knockdown, Linares still would have hung on to his title, but the result would have been a draw.
Linares (43-3, 27 KOs), 32, of Venezuela, who has also won world titles at featherweight and junior lightweight, retained his lightweight belt for the second time against Campbell (17-2, 14 KOs), the mandatory challenger from England and a 2012 Olympic gold medalist.
"I fought very well.
I'm happy with the fight," Linares said through an interpreter.
"He's a tough opponent.
Many people said he was very easy, but for some reason he's an Olympic champion.
Overall, I'm satisfied with my performance."
Lightweight champion Jorge Linares said he has his sights set on Mikey Garcia next in a potential title unification bout.
Sean M. Haffey/Getty Images

Linares looked very sharp early.
He appeared to outclass Campbell, a southpaw, in the first few rounds.
In the second round, Linares, whose hand speed advantage was very evident, landed a clean right hand to Campbell's face to knock him down with about 30 seconds to go.
The punch opened a nasty cut under Campbell's right eye, though his corner did an outstanding job of keeping it closed for the rest of the fight.
"When I got him with the punch and he went down, I didn't feel the power coming out of me," Linares said.
Linares pushed Campbell, 29, back with right hands and looked in control until Campbell began to get back into the fight in the fourth round.
"At the fifth round I started to box him a little bit because I didn't want to get hurt," Linares said.
"We had some trouble, but we came out on top.
Trust me, I have a great connection with my team and with my trainer [Ismael Salas], so we worked hard and kept at it."
Campbell had several good rounds in the middle of the fight, before Linares came back and fought the 12th round like he had the first three.
Punch stats Punches Linares Campbell Landed 140 141 Thrown 414 524 Percent 34% 27% -- Courtesy of CompuBox

"I wanted to knock him out, but I knew it was going to go the distance," Linares said.
"But from Round 10 on, I knew I had to let the dogs out, and that's what I did."
Campbell, who earned the title shot by knocking out former titleholder Darleys Perez in the ninth round in April in a title eliminator on the Anthony Joshua-Wladimir Klitschko undercard, admitted that he got off to a poor start, but he said he still thought he did enough to win the fight.
"No one can ever doubt my heart," Campbell said.
"I got off to a rocky start.
He hit me with a nice clean shot in the second round.
Cut me on the eye, but I wasn't dazed or anything like that.
From then, I had double vision in one eye for the rest of the fight, but from then, I felt I outclassed him.
I thought I won the fight.
He's a great champion, but I didn't think he was landing any shots whatsoever, and I was catching him with all the clean shots."
According to CompuBox punch statistics, Linares landed 140 of 414 blows (34 percent), and Campbell landed 141 of 524 (27 percent).
"A lot of people saw the fight a lot closer than it was because in the last couple of rounds, he was a lot more aggressive and came forward a lot more," Linares said.
"When I first started off, I felt very fast.
The only thing he had over me was that he was a very technical fighter.
He was very tall and had long arms.
I had to adjust to his style throughout the fight."
Campbell, fighting in the United States for the second time, had a five-fight winning streak come to an end.
He hadn't lost since a stunning split-decision upset loss to French journeyman Yvan Mendy in London in December 2015.
With the win, Linares set himself up for potential big business.
He wants to unify belts with Mikey Garcia (37-0, 30 KOs), one of the best pound-for-pound fighters in the world.
Garcia fought his last bout at junior welterweight on July 29, when he outclassed former four-division titlist Adrien Broner, and he has said he is willing to return to 135 pounds for a major fight or might remain at 140 pounds.
Linares, who won his 12th fight in a row, said he doesn't care which weight they fight at as long as he can get Garcia in the ring.
"Mikey Garcia at 135," Linares said when asked who he wants to face next.
"If we need to go to 140, we'll go to 140."
This week's mailbag features your questions on Dwight Howard's fit in Charlotte, playoff reform, and more.
You can tweet your questions using the hashtag #peltonmailbag or email them to peltonmailbag@gmail.com.
"Is it fair to say that the Charlotte Hornets are the closest of Dwight Howard's recent teams in terms of style and similar players to his Orlando Magic teams?"
-- Jeremi H.

Yes, I think that's fair to say.
Obviously, Steve Clifford was an assistant to Stan Van Gundy for those Magic teams, and there's a great deal of stylistic similarity between their systems in terms of emphasizing 3s, limiting turnovers (the Hornets and Van Gundy's Detroit Pistons finished first and second in turnover rate last season), controlling the defensive glass (they were first and second in the opposite order there) and staying home on shooters rather than gambling to force turnovers (Charlotte ranked 22nd and Detroit 23rd in forcing turnovers last season).
Of course, the biggest difference between those teams is why Howard might not work out any better offensively with the Hornets than in his recent stops.
Just 6 percent of Charlotte's plays last season were finished with a shot, trip to the free throw line or turnover generated by a post-up opportunity, which ranked 27th in the NBA.
By contrast, during Howard's prime, Orlando ranked fifth in post-up percentage in 2007-08, second in 2008-09, third in 2009-10 and second in 2010-11.
Naturally, personnel is part of that.
The best post-up player on last year's Hornets was ... Frank Kaminsky, I guess?
Suffice it to say, there wasn't a prime Howard on the roster.
But there isn't a prime Howard now, and his comments to ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski and Lee Jenkins of Sports Illustrated suggest Howard still hasn't come to terms with that fact.
"You have often stated that a college player's free throw percentage is a far better predictor of 3-point accuracy in the NBA than college 3-point percentage.
However, someone like Marcus Smart shoots over 80 percent at the line and is one of the worst shooters in the league.
Does NBA free throw percentage not predict 3-point prowess or is Smart just an outlier?"
-- Brett Hullihen

First, just to be clear, college free throw percentage is not a far better predictor than college 3-point percentage; the two are pretty close but free throw percentage came out marginally better the way I studied the issue.
Looking specifically at Smart, it's true this same relationship doesn't hold once players enter the NBA.
I looked at players with at least 100 3-point attempts in consecutive seasons.
Their 3-point percentage in the first season has a correlation of about 0.4 with 3-point percentage the second season, which isn't good but still much better than the correlation with free throw percentage the first season (0.15).
When you put both 3-point percentage and free throw percentage into a regression to predict 3-point percentage the following season, 3-point percentage makes up the bulk of it.
So even for a player with percentages as mismatched as Smart, incorporating free throw percentage only improves his 2017-18 projected 3-point percentage from 32.9 percent to 33.4 percent.
(With the benefit of additional years, it becomes clear Smart is unlikely to reach even that lower projection; my SCHOENE projection system forecasts 30.6 percent shooting.)
So the interesting question here is why free throw shooting doesn't have the same predictive power in the NBA than it does for college projections, and I'm not really sure.
The fact that the distance is changing could make raw shooting ability more meaningful going from the NCAA to the NBA, but Ken Pomeroy has found predictive power for free throw percentage to year-to-year improvements among college players.
So it might have more to do with the development of young players.
If we limit our NBA sample to players 22 and younger, the correlation between free throw percentage in year one and 3-point percentage in year two does improve about 50 percent to 0.22.
So there might be a little more reason for optimism about Smart's shooting, but with each passing year it becomes less likely he'll translate his free throw accuracy to the longer distance.
Who are the historical long-two takers who would have been most helped by taking a step back?
#peltonmailbag  Kevin Garrity (@kg_cagey) September 22, 2017

I tried to come up with a way to answer this question statistically but didn't come up with anything satisfying, so instead we'll go case by case.
The first two players I thought of when I read this question were two I watched as Sonics growing up: super sixth men Eddie Johnson and Ricky Pierce.
Pierce was an 87.5 percent career foul shooter who shot accurately enough from the midrange to shoot nearly 50 percent from the field for his career (49.3 percent), yet he attempted just 920 career 3s and shot them at a 32.2 percent clip.
Johnson embraced the 3 a bit more, particularly in his later years, so he attempted a more reasonable number (1,679).
Perhaps the ultimate example is someone who got namechecked in this column last week: Jeff Malone, who like Pierce shot a high percentage (48.4 percent) and was a fine free throw shooter (87.1 percent).
Malone attempted just 321 3s in his 13-year career, fewer than 31 players attempted in his final NBA season (1995-96) alone.
Some other names worth mentioning: Rolando Blackman (677 career attempts), Walter Davis (577), Alex English (83!
), John Long (313), Kelly Tripucka (465) and Kiki VanDeWeghe (592).
"I was brainstorming ways to fix the playoffs and came up with something that I haven't really seen being mentioned.
We often see the idea of eliminating the conferences, but then it gets shot down because of travel concerns, and because then it would get very complicated to balance all these teams' regular- season schedules without considering conferences.
So, I propose the following: Instead of ranking 1-16, you could still do eight teams in each conference, but a non-playoff team from the opposite conference with a better record could replace a team with a worse record."
-- Michael Cohen

I tend to think of this as the MLS solution, because the soccer league used a somewhat similar format earlier this decade.
Technically, the MLS called the last four spots in its playoffs "wild cards," allowing teams from either conference to participate but not be seeded higher than playoff teams in the other conference.
Either way, that resulted in Real Salt Lake and the Colorado Rapids winning the "Eastern Conference" playoffs in 2009 and 2010.
I like that this method gets the best 16 teams to the playoffs without dramatically altering their structure in terms of travel or conference rivalries.
As Michael noted in the full version of his email, in 2008 the 48-win Golden State Warriors stayed home while five teams from the East with weaker records made the playoffs.
That's worth trying to avoid.
That noted, there are questions about this idea.
My biggest concern is that under your proposal, teams would have huge incentive to tank their way out of their own conference's bracket and into the other whenever the conferences are lopsided.
There's less incentive if the teams from the opposite conference automatically go to the bottom of the line.
(In 2008, for example, the Warriors would be seeded seventh in the East this way instead of fourth.)
But that format would mean more travel and better opponents for the top seeds in the weaker conference than the lower seeds in the same conference, and that's not particularly fair.
So I'm not sure there's a good solution here.
@kpelton Will you be doing the Player Profiles again this year for every team?
#peltonmailbag  Hiawatha Mohawk (@MohawkHiawatha) September 23, 2017

Unfortunately, we've decided not to do them starting this season.
I understand many readers will be disappointed, and the player profiles was perhaps my favorite thing to write, so I'll miss them too.
But they were also far and away the most time-consuming writing on my plate, particularly with Bradford Doolittle moving to the MLB beat and unable to assist, so with the shortened offseason we decided to focus instead on regular analysis throughout the summer months.
Tom Haberstroh is intrigued by Isaiah Thomas' potential to turn the NBA upside down this season if he is healthy, but Stephen Jackson likes another seasoned player.
(1:59)

Even though the Warriors are going to curb-stomp everyone, developments outside the Bay still matter.
The growth of one player, or one unexpected boom-or-bust trade, can bend the trajectory of an entire franchise.
Editor's Picks Lowe Post: Eagle on career, Nets, Raftery Zach talks to play-by-play legend Ian Eagle about his career, the Nets, Bill Raftery, Mike & the Mad Dog, and much more.
What happens when 30 NBA owners can't share $24 billion?
According to internal NBA documents, big spending after a massive influx of cash has set off an intense debate among owners about how to divide revenues.
Zach Lowe and Brian Windhorst report on the NBA's financial picture.
1 Related

With that in mind, here's our annual spotlight on six of the most intriguing players to watch in the upcoming season.
We avoid superstars and obvious first- and second-year curiosities.
The goal is to find guys in new roles, facing new challenges, who might emerge as X factors for solid teams.
RODNEY HOOD, UTAH JAZZ

The moment Gordon Hayward hit "publish," Hood became the go-to scorer for this defense-first meat grinder that figures to be in the race for one of the West's last three playoff spots.
The presence of Ricky Rubio means Hood doesn't have to be Hayward, who served as something of a co-point guard.
Quin Snyder prefers an egalitarian offense, but Rubio's unique game -- the combination of horrid shooting and genius passing -- means he will probably have the ball more than anyone on last season's Jazz did.
That will free Hood to score, which is good, because Hood wants to score.
He averaged just 2.2 assists per 36 minutes last season, a career low, and a disappointing figure considering how often he commandeered the offense.
He sometimes holds the ball too long, and takes one fatal extra dribble toward an open teammate that gives the defense a head start in recovering:

His handle can get rickety:

Hood has flashed good vision; he wraps slick interior dimes to Rudy Gobert and Derrick Favors, likely to start together again, and occasionally slings crosscourt lasers to corner shooters.
But his assists have stemmed more from crisis response -- "Oh, crap, I'm trapped!"
-- than any proactive reading of the defense.
Utah needs a hair more playmaking.
But the Jazz know Hood is a scorer at heart.
They just want him to score more efficiently.
He pulls up for a ton of tough midrangers:

About 30 percent of Hood's shots came in the floater zone between 3 and 16 feet from the rim, a share that ranked in the 90th percentile among wing players, according to research from Ben Falk of Cleaning the Glass.
Trade a few of those for drives and 3s, and Utah will have something.
Hood could average 20 per game this season, but will they be the kind of points that lead to winning?
Hood earned only two free throws per game last season; Utah will ache for cheap points, and Hood can supply some if he drives more.
He'll have to dodge heavy traffic when both Favors and Gobert are on the floor.
He's already comfortable jacking triples out of the pick-and-roll, and whether he can nudge his accuracy on those pull-up bombs a few ticks above 30 percent -- his mark last season -- might be the single most important variable in Hood's evolution.
He's crafty opening airspace for those shots.
He disguises which way he wants to go around a screen, and jukes his defender in the wrong direction with mean shoulder shimmies.
The craft translates into the paint.
Hood does the Chris Paul thing where he locks his defender on his hip, slow-dribbles inside, and waits to see what the defense yields:

The biggest leap for a playmaker is the one from reacting to manipulating -- to envisioning multiple possible outcomes, and engineering the best one.
Hood has the goods to progress along that continuum, but it's unclear if he can do it every night against the best opposing wing defenders.
His days overwhelming weak links are over.
He struggled in the playoff hothouse and has suffered a bunch of nagging injuries.
Hood is eligible for an extension now, but Utah can wield the hammer of restricted free agency in July -- when Hood will have a teensy cap hold.
The bet here is that the Jazz will wait.
JUSUF NURKIC, PORTLAND TRAIL BLAZERS

Ah, the tanktastic NBA of March and April, where what looks like a positive trend might actually just be a team -- or a player -- trying against sad sacks.
The Blazers, mediocre all season, jolted to 14-5 with Nurkic in the starting lineup, and outscored opponents by nine points per 100 possessions with the Bosnian Beast on the floor, per NBA.com.
They went 5-3 in that stretch against playoff teams, and dealt a death blow to Denver's postseason hopes in an eighth-seed showdown -- a game in which Nurkic humiliated his old team.
(By the way: Remember when the Nuggets had a boatload of extra picks?
They have none now.
They attached one to Nurkic in the Mason Plumlee deal, and gave another to Philly in 2015 as a gift for taking on JaVale McGee's contract.
The Nuggets basically lit two first-round picks on fire.
Yeah, McGee was toxic, with another year left on his deal at the time worth $12 mill.
And Denver already had a ton of young guys.
Still: That's not great, Bob.)
Nurkic's revival is a useful reminder that only a half-dozen or so superstars translate independently across any roster.
Everyone else is a plant seeking the right habitat.
In Denver, Nurkic set screens for point guards who inspired no fear.
In Portland, he dances with Damian Lillard and CJ McCollum, lethal pull-up shooters who draw traps 30 feet from the rim.
Nurkic suddenly had space to rampage, and holy hell, did he rampage:

He understood defenses would swarm Lillard and McCollum early, and adjusted by slipping screens -- darting toward the paint before even setting a pick -- way more often in Portland than in Denver, per Synergy Sports.
Nurkic isn't a leaper, but he's explosive on the horizontal plane; he can zip from the foul line to the rim in a flash.
"We didn't know the extent of his game," said McCollum, who watched a lot of film with Nurkic early to accelerate their two-man chemistry.
"He's huge, but he can make plays without being a klutz."
Nurkic became a fundamentally different player.
He migrated outside, and exchanged brute force post-ups for pick-and-roll devastation.
(It also helped that he, like, tried.)
Most promising of all, he showed the passing chops to run Portland's offense from the elbows, easing the creative burden on Lillard and McCollum.
Portland's weaker shooters -- and there are a lot -- realized right away Nurkic could find them on backdoor cuts if their defenders lunged at McCollum and Lillard popping off picks.
And with Nurkic handling, McCollum and Lillard morph into dangerous, Curry-style screen-setters.
Nurkic almost doubled his assist rate in Portland.
He even used his post-ups to draw the extra help Plumlee never could, and pick out cutters.
He injected some needed unpredictability -- a new method of attack -- after the league caught up to the cascading flow offense that surprised opponents during Portland's feel-good 2015-16 season.
Nurkic will have to manage amid tighter spacing with Allen Crabbe jettisoned to Brooklyn.
Crabbe allowed Terry Stotts to stagger his worst rotation shooters -- Maurice Harkless, Al-Farouq Aminu, Evan Turner, Noah Vonleh -- so that only one or two were on the floor with Nurkic.
That will be harder now.
Help defenders might arrive in the paint sooner, and Nurkic isn't as steady on his feet when the help meets him high on the floor.
"The give and take is that you have more good defenders on the court," Stotts, Portland's coach, told ESPN.com.
"But we do need to find another shooter."
(The Blazers are confident Harkless and Aminu can stabilize as at least average 3-point shooters; Aminu shot 36 percent from deep two seasons ago, and better than that after returning from injury last season.
We'll see.
It will be awhile before anyone guards them.)
On defense, Nurkic returned the Blazers to the conservative dropback style they preferred when Robin Lopez manned the middle.
He's surprisingly nimble, with sticky paws; Nurkic recorded 1.5 steals and 2.3 blocks per 36 minutes as a Blazer, rare historic territory for a 7-footer.
Keeping Nurkic back allows Portland's wing defenders to stay close to enemy shooters, cracking down on 3-point attempts.
That scheme brings obvious trade-offs.
Portland won't force many turnovers.
Lillard and McCollum, both minus defenders, face enormous pressure to scoot cleanly around picks; get hung up, and opposing guards have acres of space to launch 3s.
Nurkic will have to scamper out of his comfort zone against centers with 3-point range.
He's a so-so rim protector who struggles to keep up when opponents run him through two or three actions in quick succession.
When he gets tired, his arms drop to his sides, like a winded boxer.
Teams are going to test his conditioning.
The Nurkic Fever honeymoon will end; adversity will strike, and Nurkic pouted when he didn't get his way in Denver.
Good news: Nurkic appears to be in great shape.
If he stays disciplined, he could become an important part of Portland's long-term plan.
THE DALLAS FRONTCOURT

It will be fascinating to see how warlock Rick Carlisle meshes three potential frontcourt pillars in Harrison Barnes, Dirk Nowitzki, and Nerlens Noel -- the last in a contract year after hilariously turning down a four-year, $70 million offer early in free agency.
The trio logged just 122 mostly ugly minutes last season.
The fit between Nowitzki and Noel is obvious: Noel is the new Tyson Chandler, sucking in defenders on rim runs while Nowitzki spots up.
But what about Barnes?
The Mavs last season shifted Barnes to power forward and turned him into Nowitzki; he isolated on the wing, set picks, and abused switches from Nowitzki's old office in the middle of the foul line.
If Noel is the go-to screen-setter now, what will Barnes do when all three share the floor?
The easy answer would be to give him the ball in the pick-and-roll, but the Mavs barely did that last season, and when they did, it went poorly:

Barnes still hasn't shown the feel or vision to run an offense; he used just 163 ball screens all season, seventh-most on the Mavs, per data from STATS.
If Yogi Ferrell and Dennis Smith run the show with Noel, Barnes will have to spend a lot of time chilling in the corner -- decoy duty is beneath max-salary scorers.
Barnes has spent the summer working on his playmaking for exactly this reason.
He has set an informal goal of averaging three assists per game, he told ESPN.com.
"It's something I have to do better," he said.
But teams might switch any Barnes-Noel stuff, daring Barnes to beat their bigs or inviting Noel to post up smaller defenders.
Noel has barely hit the post over the past two seasons, and often literally falls over when he tries.
There are natural solutions.
Barnes will get plenty of time at power forward.
Carlisle has long yanked Nowitzki early so that he can anchor second units, often as a center in lineups that bled points last season.
Carlisle's flow offense, with simultaneous motion across the floor, creates organic opportunities outside the central action:

Two of Barnes, Wesley Matthews, and Nowitzki might exchange screens under the rim while Smith and Noel run a pick-and-roll up high.
Generate a switch, and any of those three can post up a mismatch.
"Even on plays that aren't designed for me," Barnes said, "there will be an option for me."
The Mavs will still use Nowitzki as a screener, and park Noel under the hoop.
Nowitzki's defenders stick to him out of respect for his jumper, allowing Dallas guards to turn the corner, draw help, and lob to lurking centers:

The Mavs might also play through Noel at the elbow a bit, and orbit him with screens and cuts -- another way of involving everyone.
Noel is a sneaky-good passer when he resists the temptation to try no-chance thread-the-needle jobs; the Sixers installed inside-out sets to let him dish.
"Nerlens can be an elite high-post passer in a spaced environment," Brett Brown, Philly's coach, told ESPN.com.
Noel also has to anchor the defense.
Carlisle has a bag of tricks -- zones, weird matchups -- to hide Nowitzki, but no trick is better than a shot-blocking, steal-swiping center patrolling the paint.
Noel's bad bets have always outnumbered his highlight steals and rejections; he leaps for blocks he'll never get, lunges wildly into passing planes, and teeters off-balance.
Carlisle will demand more discipline.
The Mavs aren't making the playoffs, but they need to learn whether Noel is worth a big investment -- and how he mixes with their other big-money stars.
JUSTISE WINSLOW, MIAMI HEAT

Remember Justise Winslow?
Boston offered Charlotte four first-round picks just for the chance to draft him.
One head coach told ESPN.com Winslow gave the best pre-draft interview he had ever seen.
The Heat owe Phoenix two first-round picks, and they are capped out for the next three years after splurging on James Johnson, Kelly Olynyk, and the Imperator of Waiters Island.
The Heat have unearthed some good young players -- Josh Richardson, Tyler Johnson -- but Winslow is their swing piece.
If they want to leap up the East, or strike a killer trade, Winslow has to rehabilitate his value.
He might have to do it from the bench if Miami starts James Johnson at power forward, as I would expect.
The Heat probably would want maximum shooting around Johnson and Hassan Whiteside; Winslow provides none.
The Heat's offense took off last season almost the moment Winslow got hurt.
When Miami plays Winslow on the wing, it has mostly been with an ace shooter -- Luke Babbitt last season -- as the nominal power forward, a setup that allows Winslow to skulk along the baseline:

Winslow is a good cutter who made huge strides as a passer last season.
Playmaking and movement can masquerade as spacing, to some degree.
Put enough guys on the floor who can cut, drive, and dish, rapid-fire, through tight corridors, and you can score even if they are so-so shooters.
Letting James Johnson handle as a point forward mitigates the Johnson-Winslow-Whiteside spacing crunch, since opponents have to honor the ball.
Hell, Miami wasn't loaded with fearsome shooters last season, despite borderline career years from Goran Dragic, Waiters and James Johnson.
The Heat were just freaking relentless, and in better shape than everyone else.
Winslow can even be an effective pick-and-roll guy when Miami hits the gas, and gets into things before opponents can gird themselves to duck under every pick:

Still: He can't shoot, and it will be hard to play him in some groups.
Opponents hide their weakest defenders on him -- even little point guards -- which makes it easier to guard everyone else.
Winslow is a better fit as a small-ball power forward in second units with Olynyk at center, but Erik Spoelstra can play those groups only so many minutes.
Winslow just has to be better.
Step one: Stop catching the ball in 3-point range, sliding inside the arc, and barfing up 21-footers.
Either jack that open 3, or move things along.
If Luc Mbah a Moute can work himself into a 40 percent shooter on corner 3s, Winslow can, too.
Winslow can drive into the chest of smaller guys and shoot over them, though he has shown zero finesse finishing around the basket; he shot a horrid 47 percent in the restricted area last season.
Winslow will be an elite defender across four positions.
He is tenacious.
He can be a productive player even if the jumper never comes.
The Heat just have to figure out how, and in what lineups.
ANDRE DRUMMOND, DETROIT PISTONS

This is a show-me year for Drummond.
All the issues I wrote about in February remain unresolved.
If Drummond insists on posting up, Stan Van Gundy wants him to try facing the basket and blowing by fools instead of belching bricky jump hooks.
(Drummond shot a ghastly 41 percent on post-ups last season, per Synergy, and rarely got to the line -- perhaps fearful of embarrassing himself there.)
On defense, Drummond resisted Van Gundy's entreaties to venture outside the paint and disrupt pick-and-rolls around the 3-point arc.
"There's a tug of war going on between us," Van Gundy said then.
The Pistons sniffed out the Drummond trade market for much of the winter, and found little interest, sources told ESPN then.
We know what Drummond is on offense, or what he should be: a dive-and-dunk rim-runner who inhales offensive rebounds before the regular humans around him even get off the ground.
Those players have value, even in the era of pace-and-space and stretch centers.
But a lot of their value has to come on defense, and that is where Drummond regressed.
He played with low energy, and often let both his man and the ball slip behind him -- leaving the rim naked.
Drummond will never be Rudy Gobert.
To live up to his contract -- and to make it movable for a team up against the tax -- he has to at least approximate DeAndre Jordan.
Detroit is optimistic Drummond will play with more effort and verve after offseason surgery to open up his left nostril.
His wind should improve, and he just turned 24.
But if the Pistons start out slowly, this situation could turn volatile -- fast.
JRUE HOLIDAY, NEW ORLEANS PELICANS

So, umm, did the Pelicans -- with DeMarcus Cousins' free agency looming and limited paths to upgrade if he leaves -- just give Jrue Holiday $26 million per year to be an average spot-up shooter next to Rajon Rondo and two All-Star bigs?
They concluded Holiday just works better as a secondary ball handler, a role he has played next to Tyreke Evans, Tim Frazier, and others over four strange years in New Orleans.
"I honestly don't think it changes much for me," Holiday told ESPN.com.
"Rondo makes scoring so much easier."
The team worried about Holiday's court vision and shot selection as the undisputed floor general.
"The fit with Rondo is going to be much, much better for him," Alvin Gentry, the Pelicans' head coach, told ESPN.com.
"Anyone who doubts the value of Rondo just has to look at the playoffs last year.
[The Bulls] dominated with him against Boston."
Holiday is a 36 percent career shooter from deep, and right around that number on the catch-and-shoot attempts he should get more of in his new role -- decent, but far below sharpshooter status.
Nobody is afraid of Holiday letting fly.
At this salary, Holiday has to do more than stand and wait -- not easy alongside three dudes who need the ball.
Gentry wants Cousins and Anthony Davis to push after rebounds, so that Holiday can run the wing, catch at full speed, and slice into a backpedaling defense.
Things will get dicier in the half court given the Pellies' shaky outside shooting.
Cousins and Davis are skilled playmakers, and Cousins has reinvented himself as an above-average 3-point shooter.
(The same reinvention has not happened for Davis.)
But there is always a trade-off having your behemoth banger chilling 30 feet from the hoop, and defenses don't hug up on Cousins out there.
The fifth starting spot at small forward is open, and Gentry might rotate players based on matchups, he said.
The bet here is on Dante Cunningham, who shot 39 percent from deep last season -- an outlier mark that won't make opponents pay him any mind.
Gentry and his staff have to get creative.
They hired Chris Finch away from Denver, and plan to mimic how the Nuggets ran their offense through Nikola Jokic.
Cousins and Davis will handle the ball up high, while the other four players screen for one another.
Gentry might even stick one of the bigs in the corner in Rick Adelman-style sets, and have Holiday screen for him there.
"Deal with that," Gentry said.
Holiday will snare dribble handoffs at the elbows, and attack scrambled defenses when Rondo kicks him the ball after a pick-and-roll.
He has spent this summer working on quick catch-and-drive attacks.
"I am locked in on off-ball actions," Holiday said.
He is in shape after his first summer of health and peace in years.
But he's undersized at the wing, and he's not a blow-by athlete anymore.
He might find himself taking tough shots over bigger defenders.
He'll have to guard those same players at times.
Gentry plans to use three-guard lineups featuring any of Rondo, Holiday, E'Twaun Moore, and Ian Clark, and he will ask Holiday to defend bigger wings.
"The Paul Georges and Kevin Durants -- we're going to ask Jrue to guard those guys," Gentry said.
The Pelicans have the talent to make noise.
Core Boogie-Davis lineups trended up on offense after a brutal start; the Pelicans ended up outscoring opponents by three points per 100 possessions with Cousins, Davis, and Holiday on the floor.
The sheer amount of IQ and craft flowing from Cousins and Davis is overwhelming.
But these guys have a lot to figure out, fast, and the wing rotation is the bad kind of scary.
They are going to need a monster year from Holiday.
Kyrie Irving, Gordon Hayward and Isaiah Thomas were only a few of the premiere players to switch teams in the offseason.
Catch up on the rest of the moves across the association.
(1:52)

The 2017 NBA offseason was perhaps the most intense and relentless summer in the league's history.
Already in the midst of an era of star movement, a handful of big-name players switched teams again, and much of it happened with surrounding drama.
But there was a method to the madness.
Here's a look at everything you may have missed (or forgotten) in the offseason and what it may mean.
2017 was really about 2018

Transaction season truly started in February, when DeMarcus Cousins was traded to the New Orleans Pelicans.
Many of the star players who were moved in the following months had the same thing in common: They will or can be free agents in 2018.
Other moves were about setting up cap space for 2018.
Photo by Layne Murdoch/NBAE via Getty Images

Cousins was in position to be traded as the Sacramento Kings tried to get out ahead of a possible contract impasse in 2018.
The same situation played out with Paul George, who was traded by the Indiana Pacers to the Oklahoma City Thunder.
Isaiah Thomas, who is headed for a potentially complex 2018 free agency because of a hip injury, was moved by the Boston Celtics to the Cleveland Cavaliers.
It's even relevant for Chris Paul.
He was involved in a blockbuster trade before he became a free agent and picked up a one-year option as part of his move to Houston.
He will be a free agent next summer, too.
Of course, LeBron James can be a free agent in 2018, as can Carmelo Anthony and Russell Westbrook, if they choose.
The Lakers have been most aggressive in clearing and protecting cap space for next summer.
Before drafting Lonzo Ball, they sent D'Angelo Russell and Timofey Mozgov to Brooklyn for Brook Lopez, who comes off the books next summer.
It's a safe bet they will be looking for ways to offload Luol Deng's contract as this season unfolds.
Although there was more huge spending throughout the summer, the money dried up for some free agents.
Lower cap projections for the future and concerns about luxury tax spending chilled the market a bit by mid-July as teams started thinking more about their 2018 books.
Warriors win again

One of the major reasons a handful of teams chose to focus more on 2018 is because the Warriors show no signs of slowing.
They successfully navigated a bit of a challenging summer but ended up in a clean sweep as they re-signed Kevin Durant, Steph Curry, Andre Iguodala, Shaun Livingston, David West, JaVale McGee and Zaza Pachulia.
They also added more shooting in Omri Casspi and Nick Young.
Marcio Jose Sanchez/AP Photo

This was expensive.
Curry landed a $200 million deal, and Iguodala used some leverage to squeeze the Warriors into a three-year, $48 million deal.
The Warriors, amazingly, have never paid the luxury tax in team history.
Those days are about to end in a big way.
But the Warriors saw more than $90 million in profit last season and have a new arena on the way that promises to unlock a treasure chest of revenue, so don't worry about them.
Boston takes some risks

The Celtics had a wonderful 2016-17, enjoying a rebirth as a championship contender and an attractive playing style where the collective was often able to triumph.
But the front office saw an overachiever, which is probably accurate, and so they went on a mission to essentially blow it up.
They will have four new starters this season.
They sacrificed several role players to open cap space to sign Gordon Hayward.
They traded their most popular player, Thomas, for Kyrie Irving in a deal that could alter the course of two franchises.
Rebuilding a contender on the fly takes guts and power, which Danny Ainge has.
But he stuck his neck out by trading down from the No.
1 overall pick and proudly stating that he'd have taken Jayson Tatum, whom he drafted at No.
3, ahead of No.
1 overall pick Markelle Fultz anyway.
That's a choice that could shape Ainge's reputation, either way, in the future.
He also elected to stay on the sidelines for Jimmy Butler and George when they were dealt, although he clearly had the assets to beat the offers the Minnesota Timberwolves put forth to land Butler and the Thunder made to get George.
Instead he cashed in some big chips for Irving, who has a ring but doesn't have the same two-way rsum as George or Butler.
We'll see how it works out.
Unprecedented coaching stability

Over the past year, the Lakers, New York Knicks, Indiana Pacers, Cavs, Atlanta Hawks, Orlando Magic and Los Angeles Clippers have changed leadership in their front offices.
Phil Jackson got fired by the Knicks a few days after making a vital draft pick (Frank Ntilikina), and with $24 million left on his contract.
David Griffin couldn't come to terms with the Cavs despite three historic years as GM, kicking off a wild few weeks in Cleveland.
Mike Budenholzer and Doc Rivers were both essentially demoted, losing their personnel control.
But the 2017-18 season will open with the same 30 coaches as a year ago.
This is unprecedented in league history.
The last coach to be fired was Dave Joerger by the Memphis Grizzlies back in May 2016, and even he immediately got another job in Sacramento.
Does this mean the NBA is in a golden era of great coaching?
Don't count on it.
Yes, many teams are happy with their coaches, but insiders are already sensing a bubble.
There could be a rash of warming seats and then changes as the season unfolds.
FRESNO, Calif. -- Quincy Pondexter's spacious six-bedroom house in his hometown of Fresno sits on a few acres.
For the past eight months, the 29-year-old forward has spent more time here than ever before while rehabbing his injury.
It's a home he's proud of, especially the theater room, which is equipped with a massive screen, theater-style seating, a pool table and a cards table.
On the wall hang NBA jerseys in framed glass display cases.
He has collected them from some of his favorite teammates, including Chris Paul, Tyreke Evans and Jrue Holiday, and he even has the high school jerseys of two of his former San Joaquin Memorial High teammates, Brook and Robin Lopez.
This is where his family and friends gather for cookouts.
It's where his AAU team, California United, flocks for pizza parties.
It's where he wanted to do this interview, "because when I think of happy times, it occurs in this room," he said.
After being sidelined the past two seasons, Pondexter is ready to make his comeback on opening night for the Chicago Bulls, who acquired him from the New Orleans Pelicans this summer.
He is finally healthy after multiple surgical procedures -- and major setbacks -- on his left knee.
It's been a longer journey than many people know about.
While his knee problems have been public, Pondexter revealed to ESPN that his health issues were much grimmer.
He was dealing with a life-threatening infection.
He thought he was going to die.
Quincy Pondexter's aim was getting back on his feet and back soaring to the rim.
Layne Murdoch Jr./NBA/Getty Images

The New Orleans Pelicans acquired Pondexter from the Memphis Grizzlies in January 2015.
They needed a 3-and-D player who could help them make a playoff push, and Pondexter excelled at hitting spot-up 3s and chasing the team's best perimeter player around.
Soon after joining the team, however, Pondexter began limping laboriously to his car after games.
He can't pinpoint when his knee began to bother him, but he grew concerned at the end of February.
The pain worsened in March, and the team sent him for X-rays and MRIs, which failed to reveal any issues.
Pondexter continued to play.
If it was just a matter of tolerating the pain, then that's what he would do.
He would take pain medication and drain his knee on occasion.
He didn't want to let his team down by sitting.
New Orleans earned the eighth seed in the Western Conference playoffs and met the Golden State Warriors in the first round.
Although they were swept, the Pelicans had a bright future with a budding superstar in Anthony Davis and a young supporting cast.
Pondexter was excited about the team's potential and desperate to solve his knee issue so it wouldn't linger into the next season.
The day after the season ended, he had another MRI and then sought out a few doctors outside of the organization.
The Pelicans told ESPN they were in consultation with Pondexter but didn't make any recommendations on a physician.
The doctors came to the conclusion he would need his knee scoped, with the outside chance he might require microfracture surgery.
During the May procedure, the worst-case scenario was realized.
"It was just supposed to be a cleanup," Pondexter said.
"The doctors were really positive about it.
They didn't really think we were going to need to do [microfracture surgery], and then, you know, you wake up from surgery, and it's done.
I was kind of in shock.
I didn't know what to do, but everyone was pretty optimistic that I would be able to return to play in the beginning of the season."
Pondexter worked hard with his personal trainers to return to the court, but his knee didn't respond well post-surgery.
Opening night of the 2015-16 season came and went.
Months passed, and he was still nowhere near playing condition.
Questions arose as to what, exactly, was going on with his knee and what stage he was at in his rehab.
But Pondexter and the team didn't have answers.
Behind closed doors, Pondexter was struggling to cope with it all.
"I tried to do everything possible to play, and my knee felt really, really bad," he said.
"I couldn't even walk upstairs or do anything, let alone run, jump or anything like that, but I wanted to sacrifice everything for the Pelicans."
Midway through the season, he decided to consult other specialists, who concluded that his microfracture procedure had failed.
He was infuriated by the news but had no choice but to go through with a second procedure in January 2016 that involved inserting cartilage from a cadaver.
It was a season-ending decision to ensure he would be ready for the start of the 2016-17 season.
New Orleans' season was also very much over.
The team did not take the next step forward as expected and lost 15 more games than the previous year.
Pondexter felt responsible for the Pelicans underperforming.
"When I was in the hospital, I would look on Twitter and see all the nasty comments saying, 'He's stealing money.
He's at home chillin' and all this s---.
Nah, I'm fighting for my life."
Quincy Pondexter

After the second procedure, Pondexter was aggressive with his rehab in the hopes of being ready for next season.
But the season tipped off, and Pondexter was in street clothes yet again.
He would remain sidelined for months.
Some fans began turning on him, questioning if he was just mailing it in.
In reality, it was the exact opposite.
"[My knee] wasn't making progress, but then there was this pain in a certain area that we couldn't get over," he said.
"Again, I tried to do everything possible to play.
I tried to pass physicals, I tried to do everything, and, a year of rehab, we didn't know what to do.
"We didn't know if my career was over.
We didn't know where to go from there, and then we tried to find an answer because we didn't know if we could see it in the MRI.
I was trying to play, and a few days later, it just took a real turn for the worse, where I woke up and my knee was swollen like a watermelon."
Pondexter traveled to New York on Jan. 1, 2017, to get his knee scoped again.
But on this trip, his health suddenly began to deteriorate.
While in his hotel room, he became nauseated and started breathing heavily.
His temperature shot to 104.
He walked to a Duane Reade pharmacy to pick up a prescription for the pain.
But while waiting in line, his vision blurred, and the 6-foot-7 forward collapsed onto the floor.
Customers and employees tended to the NBA veteran, giving him a chair and some water.
Paramedics were called to the scene, as was his physical therapist.
Pondexter was drenched in sweat.
He was terrified, bewildered and in excruciating pain.
He didn't have control over his body and feared he was dying.
"Quincy never complains," his sister Myisha Pondexter said.
"He never complains about pain, swelling or anything.
So when he first called, he never let on about how much pain he was in.
He didn't ask for help.
He's an introvert.
I'm telling him it must be the room he's in.
I'm just giving motherly advice, not thinking it's anything serious.
But by the end of the night, around 1:30 in the morning my time [California], he called begging us to get to New York and saying, 'I'm about to die.'"
Dr. Riley J. Williams, a New York-based orthopedic surgeon specialist, was enlisted to help.
"Quincy was demonstrating some serious symptoms that required us to act immediately," Dr. Williams told ESPN.
"At first it was to survive for your family and everything, but I didn't just want to survive.
I wanted to overcome."
Quincy Pondexter

Pondexter said fluid was drained from his knee and, after a few days, it was discovered he had MRSA (Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus), a skin infection that is difficult to manage and, if not treated properly and promptly, could lead to death.
Nobody knew when he developed the infection.
He was immediately taken to surgery to try to flush the infection out of his system.
Dr. Williams explained to Pondexter and his family that MRSA tends to cause complications to the healing process of a significant injury.
Following the third procedure on his knee, he was hospitalized for a month.
"I was getting checked on every two hours in the hospital," he said.
"I was doing three full bags of liquid antibiotics, which took close to two hours each time.
There was a point where I was connected on both sides, whether it was antibiotics or IVs or all types of other medicines to keep me alive.
It was pretty crazy.
It's a full day, 24 hours, around-the-clock watch over that recovery.
You're trying to eliminate an infection that's deadly."
Myisha and family members were by his side in the hospital for the first two weeks.
Meanwhile, the Pelicans were suffering their second abysmal year in a row and were on the verge of missing the playoffs again.
The DNPs piled up for Pondexter, and some of the team's fans directed their frustration his way without any clue of what he was facing.
"My condition was really hidden because we didn't want anyone to know, and I didn't want anyone to feel sorry for me," he explained.
"And when I was in the hospital, I would look on Twitter and see all the nasty comments saying, 'He's stealing money.
He's at home chillin' and all this s--.
Nah, I'm fighting for my life.
I was close to dying."
"My only energy is to go on Twitter to check the score of my team's game, and then I look at my Twitter account and you see people bashing you.
That was my only energy for that day and, you know, that really motivated me."
Spending several weeks in the hospital took its toll on Quincy Pondexter.
Courtesy of Quincy Pondexter

When Pondexter was released from the hospital in February, he couldn't walk and weighed 192 pounds, down from the 224 pounds he weighed when he was admitted.
Six weeks of rehab and bed rest were prescribed to keep the MRSA under control.
It would take him three weeks to relearn how to walk.
Davis and Holiday knew the severity of what he was going through and checked on him frequently via calls and texts.
And Pondexter continued to put in the work.
His Fresno-based physical therapist, Mike Martinez, pushed him harder and harder.
His trainers Josh Norman and Dave Standifer, of Fresno-based Athletic Performance, worked him out six to seven times a week.
Pondexter's day started at 4 a.m. Pilates in the morning, spin class near 10 a.m., weightlifting after lunch, followed by on-court work, running on a track in the evening and physical therapy to finish it out.
Most of the time, his day ended around midnight.
"A year ago, I questioned if he would be able to go again," Standifer said.
"There were days we just didn't know, but his work ethic is unmatched.
He wants to show everybody that he can still play at that level."
"He's ready to go," Norman said.
"Anything I ask him to do, he's a full go."
But on Sept. 1, he received bad news of a different kind.
General manager Dell Demps had traded him along with a 2018 second-round pick to Chicago for the draft rights to Ater Majok.
"It was a shock," Pondexter said.
"I was tired of letting the organization and fans down the last two years, and I wanted to do my best to help the Pelicans return to the playoffs.
It was definitely a gut punch.
But you know what?
It was also motivation in this process."
Feeling strong again, Quincy Pondexter aims to make his mark in Chicago.
Stacy Revere/Getty Images

Pondexter and the Pelicans didn't always see eye-to-eye during this process.
In the fall of 2015, months after Pondexter's first surgery, Pelicans head coach Alvin Gentry told an audience at a meeting held by the 3-Point Club of New Orleans that Pondexter was fined repeatedly by Demps for skipping scheduled MRI exams on his knee out of fear the team would shut him down following the detection of a significant injury.
Pondexter said it was a "false narrative," noting that he was never fined or missed an appointment.
"I sacrificed a lot of my body to play in that Pelicans uniform," he said.
"Every day I spent countless hours with the team's trainers trying to get right.
I did all that was asked of me and then some."
Through all the heartbreaks, the pain, the fear and the doubt, Pondexter has worked himself back to NBA-level health.
He isn't experiencing pain in his knee and routinely posts videos updating his progress.
There's even a clip of him exploding for a windmill dunk.
I like the progress....  pic.twitter.com/ymSSIsviuR  Coach Shad (@Shadymac1) September 1, 2017

"Quincy looks great, physically and mentally," said Dr. Snehal Patel, a physical therapist who treated him in New York.
"I can't predict anything, but I think he's primed to make a great comeback in the league."
Holiday, too, is rooting for his former teammate.
"Quincy is one of the hardest working teammates I've ever had," Holiday said.
"Being injured, I understand how hard it is to come back.
I have seen Q put in the work needed on a daily basis.
Through setbacks and tough times, he has been positive and still has been a great teammate, which at times can be really hard.
"We need more professionals like him."
Editor's Picks Trade grades: Who wins Bulls-Pels Pondexter deal?
The Pelicans gain flexibility and the Bulls pick up a player and a draft pick.
Kevin Pelton grades the trade.
Pondexter believes his best days on the court have yet to come.
With a new outlook on life that comes from almost having it taken away, the Bulls are getting a more determined, driven person and player.
"I have a lot of faith, and I believe in God's challenges," Pondexter says.
"I just looked at these last few years as, 'Damn, God is really testing me to see what happens.'
Basketball is such a part of my life that it was the motivation for me getting back.
At first it was to survive for your family and everything, but I didn't just want to survive.
I wanted to overcome.
"It's been an unbelievable and remarkable recovery.
All the doctors, they can't really explain how I've been able to recover and do so well, but we've had a great team of people that have really mended me back to health.
A few months ago, it was almost over.
I'm alive, and I get to play basketball again.
It's a miracle."
2016 WNBA MVP Nneka Ogwumike is gearing up for this year's WNBA Finals rematch and shares how to take the WNBA global.
(1:35)

There's a photo of that split second before Sparks forward Nneka Ogwumike launched the shot that won the 2016 WNBA title.
She's falling backward, the ball balanced in her right palm, her eyes on the rim.
If she misses, there are four Lynx players in the paint to get the rebound.
The only Sparks player there, Candace Parker, has been boxed out.
Alana Beard, Chelsea Gray and Essence Carson are all beyond the 3-point line.
For all practical purposes, this is the moment that defines the season for both teams.
Ogwumike didn't miss.
Her shot gave Los Angeles a 77-76 Game 5 victory.
Now she and the Sparks return to Minneapolis for Sunday's Game 1 (ABC, 3:30 p.m.
ET) of the 2017 WNBA Finals.
Ogwumike is not living in the past.
It was a wonderful "signature" moment last October for the Sparks: The MVP of the league making the clutch basket that won the championship.
But now the Sparks and the Lynx are battling in another best-of-five series.
WNBA Finals schedule The best-of-five WNBA Finals open Sunday.
All tipoffs ET.
Sept. 24: Sparks at Lynx, 3:30 p.m. (ABC) Sept. 26: Sparks at Lynx, 8 p.m. (ESPN2) Sept. 29: Lynx at Sparks, 9 p.m. (ESPN2) Oct. 1*: Lynx at Sparks, 8:30 p.m. (ESPN) Oct 4*: Sparks at Lynx, 8 p.m. (ESPN) * If necessary  Complete schedule and results

"Both teams are very system-oriented teams," Ogwumike said.
"We both understand really well what works for us and what the other does.
"I think it will be interesting to see the game plans on both sides and those adjustments that we have to make as the series goes on.
Because last year, every game, it was something different.
It called for people to do different things."
That fits with what Ogwumike has done throughout this season.
It's not to say she hasn't been pretty similar to the player she was last year.
But like all great players who are still evolving, she's figuring out how many ways she can impact games.
Last year, her efficiency was astonishing, as she shot 66.5 percent from the field in the regular season and 62.5 during the playoffs.
This year, she was at 56.1 for the regular season and shot 56.7 in the Sparks' semifinal sweep of Phoenix.
What her numbers reflect, though, is that she's drawing a huge amount of defensive attention.
Foes are doing whatever they can to bottle her up, but it hasn't hurt the Sparks; just like last year, they went 26-8 and finished second in the league.
And they are playing their best basketball at the right time: Los Angeles has won 10 games in a row.
"I don't want to ever allow that to hinder me or make me not be confident in what I can do out there," Ogwumike said of when defenses key in on her.
"But sometimes it means I have to get looks in different ways.
Or I might be able to help open up looks for other people.
"I know if I run the floor, congestion will follow me, and maybe that will open things up for [our guards].
I have to stay active.
I can't think, 'Oh, if I'm not getting shots, that's the end of it.'
That can't ever be the end of it, and it shouldn't be for anybody."
Nneka Ogwumike's jumper with 3.1 seconds left, off the rebound of her blocked shot, won it for the Sparks in Game 5 of the 2016 WNBA Finals.
Jordan Johnson/Getty Images

Indeed, how she ran the floor last year put her in a position to win the championship.
And while we're about to start a whole new series, it's worth revisiting the fantastic finish of Game 5.
With 23.4 seconds left, Beard inbounded the ball to Ogwumike, who had started the play at the 3-point arc, then dashed past Lynx defender Sylvia Fowles through the lane to get position on the right low block.
Fowles, Rebekkah Brunson and Maya Moore all quickly converged on Ogwumike, who now had the ball in one of her sweet spots.
But it meant Parker, who had stayed close to the arc to try to draw away Brunson, had an unimpeded path to the rim.
She raced in, and Ogwumike threw her a perfect dump pass for a left-handed layup.
It put the Sparks up 75-74 with 19.7 seconds left.
After a timeout, the Lynx had the ball at half court, and Lindsay Whalen inbounded to Moore on the left side.
In a one-on-one showdown between Moore and expert defender Beard, Moore prevailed.
She drove to the baseline, and Beard lost her footing and slipped to the floor as Moore executed her turnaround.
Moore elevated for her shot with no one to obstruct her, and her basket gave the Lynx the lead again, 76-75, with 15.4 seconds left.
But this is where Ogwumike's ability to get to the rim earned the Sparks the championship.
She inbounded the ball to Gray and then sped downcourt.
She bumped into Moore, then spun into the paint.
At this point, Ogwumike was in the "danger zone" as far as the Lynx were concerned, as she was below the defense and alone.
Editor's Picks MVP showdown highlights WNBA Finals rematch With the two best defenses in the league squaring off in the WNBA Finals, the play of Los Angeles' Candace Parker and Nneka Ogwumike or Minnesota's Sylvia Fowles and Maya Moore might determine this year's champ.
WNBA BPI: Lynx have slight edge over Sparks Will the WNBA Finals go the distance for the third consecutive season?
ESPN's WNBA Basketball Power Index predicts that a potent Lynx offense is the slight favorite to win the title over the balanced Sparks.
Lynx veteran Brunson reinvents her game Long regarded as a defensive and rebounding specialist, Rebekkah Brunson made more 3-pointers in 2017 than in her 12 previous seasons combined.
For her to win her fifth WNBA title, and fourth with the Lynx, Brunson must keep shooting from beyond the arc.
2 Related

But Minnesota's focus was on Gray, who launched a contested turnaround fadeaway shot from the left side, just below the free throw line.
If the Lynx were going to give up a shot, this wasn't a bad one for them to allow, except ...
There was Ogwumike, in perfect position and unimpeded, for the offensive rebound.
She grabbed the rebound from the right side of the basket, her momentum carrying her over to the left side.
Her putback was blocked by Fowles, but the ball ended up right back in Ogwumike's hands.
Then there's Ogwumike, falling backward, with one more opportunity.
Like everything in real time, it happened so quickly, there was no chance to contemplate how much was riding on it, or how difficult a shot it was.
There was only a player who'd had a magical season she'd worked so hard to achieve, putting one last spectacular bow on the whole thing with 3.1 seconds left.
Later, as disappointed as she was, Minnesota coach Cheryl Reeve would say it was about Ogwumike doing "a very Nneka-like thing," which is to say putting herself in the right position and then not giving up on the play.
The Lynx still had a chance for a half-court heave by Whalen, but when that hit the backboard and the horn sounded, Ogwumike and the Sparks could celebrate.
"You always have to keep looking on the bright side, and that's something I'm really good at doing," Ogwumike said in the jubilant Sparks locker room later that night.
"People think I'm a little too optimistic, but I don't care.
This is why you do it.
You have to visualize things before they happen."
Ogwumike barely paused, though, after winning the 2016 title.
She was busy, busy, busy -- taking over as president of the players' union's executive committee, playing for Dynamo Kursk overseas in Russia, posing for ESPN the Magazine's Body Issue, being a spokeswoman for causes she believes in.
This season, she averaged a team-high 18.8 points and also 7.7 rebounds.
She feels like she continues to learn all the time.
While this series won't be at Target Center like last year -- the Lynx's home for these WNBA Finals is the University of Minnesota's Williams Arena -- the memories of last year will be lingering before Game 1 begins.
At least for the fans.
Then it's a whole new chapter, and Ogwumike is ready for that.
"It's huge to be playing them again," she said of the Lynx.
"The conversation about these two teams hasn't stopped since the beginning of last season, through the WNBA Finals, and into the beginning of this season.
And all the way until now.
"I think it's a great representation of the progress of our league.
It allows people to reminisce about rivalries that have existed before, and also give them something to relate to now, in terms of a modern rivalry between two elite teams."
Webb Simpson may be a bit intimidated by the fairways and the heat at the Tour Championship, but he's in contention after two rounds for a reason.
(1:17)

ATLANTA -- It seems fairly obvious that the 30 players who made it to the Tour Championship at East Lake all want to be here.
Certainly, there are higher levels of enthusiasm for some after a long year and numerous big tournaments.
But in general, the idea of playing for an $8.75 million purse ($1.575 million to the winner) and millions more in prize money -- including a $10 million bonus for the winner of the FedEx Cup -- is a pretty sweet deal and a goal worth pursuing.
There are some players who expect to be here, such as Jordan Spieth and Dustin Johnson and Rickie Fowler.
Editor's Picks Thomas in three-way tie at Tour Championship Courtesy of a 4-under 66 in Round 2, Justin Thomas shares the lead at the PGA Tour's season finale.
If Thomas can hold on for the win this weekend, he'll also bring home the $10 million FedEx Cup bonus.
Caddie Confidential: Bonus time and a little Rory McIlroy scuttlebutt Which caddies get FedEx Cup playoff bonuses?
And what's the talk about Rory McIlroy's looper situation?
This week's anonymous caddie at the Tour Championship goes in-depth on a multitude of topics.
From fire-knife dancing to the Tour Championship Tony Finau's winding road to East Lake -- that will eventually take him to the Masters -- wasn't exactly what his parents expected.
2 Related

There are some players who figured to be here but are not, such as Rory McIlroy and Phil Mickelson.
And there are some who are here and are truly relishing it, regardless of how they fare over the weekend.
Specifically, Pat Perez, Tony Finau and Patrick Cantlay are thrilled to be here because they've qualified for the Tour Championship for the first time.
And there are veterans such as Webb Simpson and Gary Woodland who appreciate their appearance more than they might have in other years -- and have managed to put themselves in contention.
"I'm definitely way more thankful to be here than I was the four years in a row I came here, and it's because it's hard to get here," said Simpson, the 2012 U.S. Open champion who missed the Tour Championship the past two years.
"I feel like the competition on the PGA Tour is better every year.
Pursues are bigger, there's FedEx Cup points, guys are hungrier than ever.
"And next season starts my 10th season, so I'm not that young anymore.
So it felt a lot more special this year after missing two in a row and knowing that I had a tough mountain to climb.
I just started playing well the last few months and so it feels great to be back."
Simpson shot 3-under-par 67 on Friday to move into a tie for the lead with Justin Thomas and Paul Casey.
Woodland also shot 67, and he is another shot back and in a tie for fourth with Patrick Reed, Justin Rose and Jon Rahm.
In his first Tour Championship since 2014, Webb Simpson has a share of the lead after two rounds.
"I just started playing well the last few months and so it feels great to be back," he said.
AP Photo/David Goldman

For Cantlay and Finau, the reasons for wanting to be here are more basic.
They qualified for their first Tour Championship, thus ensuring finishing among the top 30 in FedEx Cup points.
That alone means a big perk: spots in the first three major championships next year, including the Masters.
Cantlay managed to do it playing in just 11 tournaments this year, after battling injuries for the past several seasons.
"I picked my spots and I played really well this year up to this point," said Cantlay, who rebounded from an opening-round 74 by shooting 66 on Friday.
"I feel like I'm just getting started, just starting to get rolling and getting comfortable playing.
I'm playing really well.
My game is in good shape."
Same for Perez, who at age 41 is the oldest player in the field.
He qualified for the Tour Championship for the first time in his career.
At 11th in the FedEx Cup standings, Perez would have to win the tournament and have a slew of things happen just right to be crowned overall champion.
But just getting to East Lake is special enough, and he's not sweating the computations.
"I didn't think it was going to take me 16 years to get here, but it has and I'm just going to enjoy every minute of it," said Perez, who is tied for 11th after consecutive 68s.
"It's awesome to be here.
"I have such a different perspective because I wasn't playing last year (due to a shoulder injury).
So the last thing on my mind was ever trying to get here.
Obviously, that's always the goal, but it' so far down the line.
I can't imagine the fact that I'm here, for one, and have done it at 41, coming back after surgery.
It's just fantasy land."
Pat Perez is playing in his first Tour Championship at age 41.
"I didn't think it was going to take me 16 years to get here, but it has and I'm just going to enjoy every minute of it," he said.
Sam Greenwood/Getty Images

Perez, who is ranked 33rd in the world, won his second career PGA Tour title in November at the Mayakoba Classic, while playing on a medical extension that he received after missing most of the 2015-16 season because of shoulder surgery.
Despite missing the cut at both the U.S. Open and The Open, Perez had one of his best seasons, with the win, six top-10s and 13 top-25s.
He has played in the FedEx Cup playoffs 10 times, with his best finish 44th.
He finished tied for 34th, tied for sixth and tied for 12th at the first three playoff events this year.
"I'll enjoy it all the way around," Perez said.
"I'd like to enjoy it while walking in the fairway and not in the rough too."
Woodland made it to the Tour Championship for the fifth time, hanging onto the 28th position after beginning the playoffs there.
It was somewhat remarkable that Woodland was able to sustain any level of play after a tumultuous year off the course.
His wife, Gabby, was pregnant with twins and lost one of the babies around the time of the WGC-Match Play.
The other baby, Jaxson, was born June 23, but premature.
That, clearly, has made it a difficult year emotionally for Woodland, who nonetheless finds himself in contention after two rounds at East Lake.
"This is definitely the most rewarding year being here," Woodland said.
"I got off to a great start earlier this year and my game was as good as it's been.
Then I obviously had to battle through the summer.
But the game never left me; it's just that mentally I wasn't always there.
I've seen some signs of putting it all together."
With a big purse and a good bit of bonus money at stake, this is certainly a good week to do it.
Xander Schauffele is probably going to win Rookie of the Year on the PGA Tour but he had no idea just how much cash he was playing for this week at the Tour Championship.
Video by Michael Collins (0:59)

Xander Schauffele is probably going to win Rookie of the Year on (0:59)

ATLANTA -- The seven-year streak which has seen the Tour Championship winner also claim the FedEx Cup and the $10 million bonus is in serious peril with one day remaining in the season-ending PGA Tour event at East Lake.
None of the top five players -- Jordan Spieth, Justin Thomas, Dustin Johnson, Marc Leishman or Jon Rahm -- are closer than 5 strokes to tournament leader Paul Casey heading into the final round of the 30-player tournament.
That means all manner of scenarios exist going into the final day.
The last time the Tour Championship winner did not claim the FedEx Cup title was in 2009 when Phil Mickelson won the tournament and Tiger Woods claimed the overall trophy.
Justin Thomas put his golf ball in some precarious positions Saturday at East Lake Golf Club, but he's not out of the running for the $10 million FedEx Cup bonus.
Kevin C. Cox/Getty Images

Here is quick look at some of the possibilities.
Casey.
The third-round leader had a 4-stroke lead at one point and has been under par every day.
At 10th in the FedEx standings, he would need to win and have Spieth finish in a three-way tie for fourth or worse, along with other scenarios.
If it ended Saturday, Casey would be the FedEx Cup champ.
Kevin Kisner.
The Georgia Bulldog didn't seem too stressed about the big prize, bolting East Lake after a 64 to catch the football game against Mississippi State in Athens, Georgia.
At 18th in the standings, he would need a lot to happen -- including rally from 2 back of Casey.
But a win would be the biggest of his career.
Xander Schauffele.
The PGA Tour rookie who won at the Greenbrier is making the most of his first trip to the Tour Championship, shooting 65 on Saturday.
He would need Spieth to finish worse than 23rd to win the FedEx Cup, so Schauffele's sole goal is to hoist the tournament trophy.
Paul Casey came into the week in 10th place in the FedEx Cup standings.
After 54 holes at the Tour Championship, he's in the top spot both in the tournament and the FedEx Cup playoff standings with 18 holes to go.
Sam Greenwood/Getty Images

Brooks Koepka.
The U.S. Open champion shot 68 despite two closing bogeys.
At ninth in the FedEx standings, he would be the overall champion if he can rally to win and Spieth, Thomas and Johnson all stay outside of the top two or three -- which is the case now.
Patrick Reed.
At 23rd in FedEx Cup points, the overall title appears out of reach, but Reed is in search of a victory this year.
Like Casey, he could become the first player since Bill Haas in 2011 to make the Tour Championship his only win of the season.
Thomas.
He failed to pounce Saturday, shooting even par after holding a share of the 36-hole lead to fall 5 back of Casey.
Thomas is tied for fourth and projected to finish second in the standings but could claim the overall title if he finishes in the top three or better if Casey does not win.
Editor's Picks Casey wants the win more than the cash -- really Given the choice between winning the Tour Championship ($1.575 million) or the FedEx Cup playoffs ($10 million), Paul Casey wants the win more than the hefty cash payout.
His reasoning isn't as crazy as it might sound.
Caddie Confidential: Bonus time and a little Rory McIlroy scuttlebutt Which caddies get FedEx Cup playoff bonuses?
And what's the talk about Rory McIlroy's looper situation?
This week's anonymous caddie at the Tour Championship goes in-depth on a multitude of topics.
1 Related

Jason Day.
Finally showing some form in recent weeks, Day is also in search of a lone victory this season.
A double-bogey on the 16th hole Saturday stalled a round that saw him make four straight birdies on the front side.
He's 6 strokes back with little to lose.
The young Spaniard also didn't make a move, shooting even par to finish 6 back of Casey.
If Rahm can move into a tie for second, he's got a shot at the overall title.
Johnson.
He was unable to move into contention, shooting 69 to stand 8 behind Casey.
DJ needs to go low and finish no worse than third if he has any hopes of claiming the FedEx Cup.
Jordan Spieth controlled his own destiny coming into the Tour Championship, but since he's trailing Paul Casey's 54-hole lead by 8 shots, the likelihood that the 24-year-old Texan winning the $10 million bonus is slim.
Tannen Maury/EPA

Spieth.
Much like Johnson, he couldn't get anything going on Saturday, and is tied for 13th, 8 strokes back.
He can still win the FedEx Cup title if he finishes somewhere in the top six, but more likely he'll need to be in the top three and finish ahead of Thomas.
Leishman.
Fourth in the FedEx standings coming off his victory at the BMW Championship, Leishman seems to have left his game behind in Chicago.
He has shot just one round in the 60s and is tied for 22nd.
To have any chance, Leishman would need to pass about 20 players on Sunday.
You wanted to be in the lead with a chance to win the Tour Championship Paul Casey... What's it like being there and how is it different than trying to come from behind?
Video by Michael Collins (1:24)

You wanted to be in the lead with a chance to win (1:24)

ATLANTA -- Paul Casey has thought about it and he's made up his mind.
He's more focused on the Tour Championship than the FedEx Cup.
It might sound logical to choose the tournament victory over the concocted points title, until you realize there are about 8 million reasons to pick the latter -- that's the dollar differential between the two.
Casey doesn't care.
He isn't fixated on the bloated payout, isn't thinking about being the season-long champion.
That's a direct result of having not won a PGA Tour event in eight years and letting it weigh on his mind every time he gets close.
"For me, the most important thing is trying to focus on trying to win the Tour Championship," he explained.
"The FedEx is an amazing byproduct of hopefully doing that."
As it turns out, procuring a win at the season finale just might be enough to claim the playoff title, as well.
With one round left to play, Casey leads Kevin Kisner and Xander Schauffele by 2 strokes -- and as things stand now, he's projected to also claim the FedEx Cup.
Paul Casey could potentially crack the top 10 in the world rankings if he were to get his first PGA Tour victory since 2009 on Sunday at the Tour Championship.
Kevin C. Cox/Getty Images

Not bad for a guy who so often has been associated with close calls and near misses.
Already this season, he owns one third-place finish among his eight top-10s.
Last season, he claimed two second-place finishes and seven top-10s.
The season before?
Two seconds, two thirds and eight top-10s.
It's a rsum for which most other PGA Tour professionals would trade instantaneously, but Casey looks at other players' records and notes those victory totals.
"I take it as motivation," he said.
"I truly haven't put myself in quite good enough position.
Too much pressure on a Sunday to try to do something special.
I thought I had an outside chance at Bridgestone this year and you're looking at what Hideki [Matsuyama] was doing to the golf course [a final-round 61], it's like, kind of throw my hands up."
The truth is, Casey is too talented to continue a winless drought that is nearing a decade.
He turned 40 this year, but shows no signs of slowing down -- if anything, he is the rare golfer in this young-gun era who appears to be improving with age.
He finished sixth at this year's Masters, 26th at the U.S. Open, 11th at the Open Championship and 13th at the PGA Championship for a sterling record where it matters most.
And he's currently ranked 14th in the world, a number that could climb into single digits with a Sunday triumph.
Editor's Picks Breaking down FedEx Cup scenarios With $10 million up for grabs on Sunday at the Tour Championship, what's got to happen for some of the big names to bring home the cash?
Bob Harig digs into some of the FedEx Cup possibilities.
Casey leads in Atlanta; Spieth needs some help As Paul Casey separated from the pack in the Tour Championship, Jordan Spieth lost control of his path, should he somehow find a way to win the event.
Caddie Confidential: Bonus time and a little Rory McIlroy scuttlebutt Which caddies get FedEx Cup playoff bonuses?
And what's the talk about Rory McIlroy's looper situation?
This week's anonymous caddie at the Tour Championship goes in-depth on a multitude of topics.
2 Related

"I don't look at my age; I don't think about it," he insisted.
"I look at more my abilities -- knocking a drive down past JT [Justin Thomas] on the last, things like that.
That's kind of how I measure myself.
Obviously, then score and results; that's how I measure myself out here.
Can I still play the golf I used to play?
The answer is, it's pretty close.
I still have great physical talent and so the age thing doesn't bother me.
"I don't see it as a handicap in any way.
It would be cool to, yeah, maybe I'll brag about it to the young guys, but I don't think about it too much.
For me, the clock is ticking, though, for sure.
Five, six, seven good years is what I think I've probably got left, so I need to make hay."
The $10 million FedEx Cup first-place prize and $1.575 million for winning the tournament would qualify as a lot of made hay on Sunday afternoon.
In order to win the playoff title, Casey needs Jordan Spieth (currently T-13) to finish in a three-way tie for fourth or worse; Thomas (currently T-4) to finish T-3 or worse; Dustin Johnson (currently T-13) to finish in a three-way tie for second or worse); Marc Leishman (currently T-22) to finish T-2 or worse; and Jon Rahm (currently T-7) to finish in a two-way tie for second or worse.
Those are a lot of variables, leading to plenty of potential scenarios for the final round.
He won't be focused on any of them.
Casey just wants to win the tournament.
He just wants to finally win again, for the first time in more than eight years.
Asked whether he's even given consideration, though, to pulling off the season-ending double, he admits that it has, of course, crossed his mind.
"It would be amazing, yeah, it would be," he said, before catching himself.
"Yes, I have given that thought and then I try to not think about it."
Bill Belichick, the Patriots coach, stood next to Brady during the anthem with his arms crossed in front of his body.
Earlier in the day, Patriots owner Robert K. Kraft issued a statement condemning Trumps attack on the league, saying he was deeply disappointed by the tone of the comments made by the President on Friday.
More Demonstrations in Buffalo, Charlotte and Indianapolis

Reports from 1 p.m. games around the county showed that dozens of Broncos players knelt in Buffalo.
About 10 Saints sat for the anthem at Carolina.
Spectators at the Colts home Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis booed loudly after many of the Browns players kneeled in a huddle during the national anthem.
Colts players locked arms during the anthem despite the boos.
Eagles and Giants Lock Arms in Front of American Flag

Photo

In Philadelphia, Eagles and Giants players and coaches locked arms as a massive American flag was unfurled over the field and military jets performed a flyover.
A few players raised fists or knelt, while Eagles owner Jeffrey Lurie locked arms with his players and police officers.
Steelers Dont Participate in Anthem

The Pittsburgh Steelers did not emerge from the locker room in Chicago during the national anthem before their game against the Bears.
Steelers Coach Mike Tomlin said the team would be unified in their actions, and the empty Pittsburgh bench was a stark image of the teams unity.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Were not going to play politics, Coach Mike Tomlin told CBS before the game.
Were football players, were football coaches.
Were not participating in the anthem today.
Not to be disrespectful to the anthem, but to remove ourselves from this circumstance.
People shouldnt have to choose.
If a guy wants to go about his normal business and participate in the anthem, he shouldnt have to be forced to choose sides.
If a guy feels the need to do something, he shouldnt be separated from his teammate who chooses not to.
So were not participating today.
Tomlin came out alone for the anthem and stood at midfield with his hands behind his back.
Steelers offensive lineman Alejandro Villanueva, a captain in the U.S. Army, stood by the tunnel entrance with his hand over his heart during the ceremony.
Terry Bradshaw Weighs in on Pregame Show

Terry Bradshaw, a hall of fame quarterback and commentator for Fox, said he did not condone protests during the national anthem, but he argued that they should be allowed.
Every American has the right to speak out and also to protest, Bradshaw said.
Believe me, these athletes do love this great country of ours.
Personally, I think our president should concentrate on serious issues like North Korea and health care rather than ripping into athletes and the N.F.L.
Rookie Becomes First Baseball Player to Take a Knee

Bruce Maxwell, a rookie catcher with the Oakland Athletics, became the first athlete to protest during the national anthem in a major-league baseball game on Saturday night.
The point of my kneeling was not to disrespect our military or our constitution or our country, Maxwell told the San Francisco Chronicle after the game.
My hand was over my heart because I love this country and I have family members, including my father, who bled for this country, and who continue to serve.
This goes beyond the black and Hispanic communities because right now we have a racial divide thats being practiced from the highest power we have in this country saying its basically OK to treat people differently.
The National Anthem and Sports in America

The national anthem has been a part of sports in the United States for more than a century, being played at some baseball games as far back as the 19th century.
The Star-Spangled Banner became the nations official anthem in 1931 and its playing increased sharply.
It has been performed for every baseball game since 1942.
Other sports followed.
The United States is an outlier.
In Europe, for example, it is unusual to hear an anthem before a major sporting event.Protests during the American anthem also have a pre-Colin Kaepernick history.
Track athletes Tommie Smith and John Carlos were kicked out of the 1968 Olympics after raising their black-gloved fists during the anthem in support of human rights.
The basketball player Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf declined to stand in 1996 because he considered the flag a symbol of racism and was fined.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Rex Ryan Regrets Supporting Trump

Rex Ryan, the former Jets and Bills coach who once introduced then-presidential candidate Donald Trump at a rally in Buffalo, expressed his regret on the morning show Sunday N.F.L.
Countdown.
Everyones always been united.
Yeah, the views are different but lemme tell you: Im pissed off, said Ryan, who now works as an ESPN commentator.
Ill be honest with you.
Because I supported Donald Trump.
When he asked me to introduce him at a rally in Buffalo, I did that.
But Im reading these comments and its appalling to me and Im sure its appalling to almost any citizen in our country.
It should be.
Photo

Jaguars and Ravens Kneel and Lock Arms During Anthem

In a pointed rebuke of President Trumps call for N.F.L.
owners to fire players who protest during the national anthem, Shahid Khan, the only Muslim owner in the league, locked arms with his Jacksonville Jaguars players on Sunday before their game in London.
During the playing of the national anthem, Khan locked arms with tight end Marcedes Lewis and linebacker Telvin Smith, both of whom are black, on the sidelines to show unity with his players who are trying to highlight social injustice and police brutality against African-Americans.
While the N.F.L.
and several owners issued statements on Saturday saying they supported the players protests and were unhappy with the presidents comments, Khan was the first owner to stand with his players.
Khan is also a Republican and contributed money to the presidents inauguration, and has said he supports the presidents economic policies.
But he is also an immigrant and a Muslim, two groups that the president has routinely attacked.
In February, Khan, who is Pakistani-American, said he opposed the presidents attempt to bar people from some predominantly Muslim countries from entering the United States.
Khans actions will put the spotlight on other team owners.
Owners of the Bills, Lions, Dolphins, Falcons, Rams and Giants were among those who issued statements opposing the presidents comments.
But many prominent owners, including Jerry Jones of the Cowboys and Woody Johnson of the Jets, were silent.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Patriots Owner Robert Kraft Condemns Trumps Criticism

President Trump doubled down on his criticism of N.F.L.
players who take a knee during the national anthem, saying fans should boycott games unless the players are fired or suspended.
Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots and a longtime friend of the presidents, was among the first to reply, saying in a statement:

I am deeply disappointed by the tone of the comments made by the President on Friday.
I am proud to be associated with so many players who make such tremendous contributions in positively impacting our communities.
Their efforts, both on and off the field, help bring people together and make our community stronger.
There is no greater unifier in this country than sports, and unfortunately, nothing more divisive than politics.
I think our political leaders could learn a lot from the lessons of teamwork and the importance of working together toward a common goal.
Our players are intelligent, thoughtful and care deeply about our community and I support their right to peacefully affect social change and raise awareness in a manner that they feel is most impactful.
Paul Tagliabue: Insulting and Disgraceful to Insult Players

Paul Tagliabue, a former commissioner of the N.F.L.
before Roger Goodell, said in a news conference on Sunday that he could not speak for the league since he had retired.
But he said it was insulting and disgraceful to insult particular players, Sports Illustrated reported.
When it comes to speech, theyre entitled to speak, were entitled to listen, were entitled to disagree or agree, for that matter, Tagliabue said.
But were not entitled to shut anybodys speech down.
Sometimes you dont like what you hear; well, thats true of life in lots of contexts.
But you cant shut people down and you cant be disgraceful when youre doing it.
N.F.L.
Owners Add Their Voices to the Chorus

N.F.L.
owners, most of them conservative and many of them large donors to President Trump, joined with Kraft and backed their players rights to protest during the national anthem and condemned Trumps criticism.
Colts owner Jim Irsay said, I am troubled by the presidents recent comments about our league and our players.
Eagles owner Jeffrey Lurie said, I support them as they take their courage character and commitment into our communities to make them better or to call attention to injustice.
Chargers owner Dean Spanos said, The N.F.L.
and its players, more than anything, have been a force for good.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

From Jimmy Haslam, owner of the Cleveland Browns:

We must not let misguided, uninformed and divisive comments from the President or anyone else deter us from our efforts to unify.
Bears chairman George H. McCaskey said in a statement on Sunday morning that what makes this the greatest country in the world are the liberties it was founded upon and the freedom to express oneself in a respectful and peaceful manner.
He said the franchise was unified by this divisive political situation.
On the Field

 Blake Bortles, a name synonymous with quarterback mediocrity, looked like Peyton Manning, throwing for four touchdowns as the Jaguars romped past the Ravens in London, 44-7.
As a player and as a coach, Kerr has visited the White House on several occasions.
And despite his well-publicized criticism of the current administration, Kerr said in June that he was open to the idea of the Warriors visiting the White House as something of a unifying gesture.
I think we would, in normal times, easily be able to set aside political views, and go visit and have a great time, Kerr said Saturday.
But these are not ordinary times.
Probably the most divisive times in my life, I guess, since Vietnam, when I was just a kid.
He added, The president made it really, really difficult for us to honor that institution.
On Friday, at the teams annual media day ahead of the start of training camp, Curry said that the Warriors had not decided as a team whether they would visit the White House and that they planned to talk about it at a meeting.
But Curry said that if it were up to him, he would not go.
That seemed to be the consensus among the players.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
On Saturday morning, Trump made the Warriors decision for them when he tweeted that the invitation had been withdrawn because Curry was hesitating.
As Kerr put it, He was going to break up with us before we could break up with him.
Kerr said he learned of Trumps tweet when his wife tapped him on the shoulder in bed.
I was half-asleep, Kerr recalled, and she said: There it is.
There it is.
Photo

Members of the Warriors organization  including executives in the front office  have used their huge platform to speak out about social causes in recent seasons, including gay rights and racial inequality.
General Manager Bob Myers said that would continue to be the case.
We encourage our players to speak their minds, he said.
For his part, Curry said that he had never set out to become a political figure  and that he was surprised that the president had singled him out.
At the same time, Curry said he felt emboldened by the support he had received from friends and fellow athletes, many of whom were vocal on social media.
Were not trying to divide and separate this country, Curry said.
Were trying to bring everyone together and speak about love and togetherness and equality.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

At one point during his news conference, Curry sounded almost nostalgic.
Ive played golf with President Obama, Curry said.
Im pretty sure I wont get a tee-time invite during this regime.
Joe Girardi, the Yankees manager, said that the team would pursue the division title, and that the secondary goal would be retaining home-field advantage for the wild-card game.
Photo

I think its important that we keep our foot on the gas and see where we lie, Girardi said.
You dont want guys to lose that edge that theyve had for so long.
The Yankees were committed this season to a balancing act of rebuilding the team while also trying to win now, and they made it work.
Last year they traded away veteran stars like Andrew Miller and Aroldis Chapman to stock the minor league system with prized prospects, hoping to build toward a prosperous future with a core of talented young players already in place, including Greg Bird, Aaron Judge, Gary Sanchez and Luis Severino.
But General Manager Brian Cashman also made moves to fortify the team for this years push.
That included bringing back Chapman as a free agent, signing Matt Holliday and later trading for players like Sonny Gray, Todd Frazier, Tommy Kahnle and David Robertson without surrendering the clubs best young players.
Saturdays victory represented the fruit of those decisions.
Gray allowed one run and four hits in six innings, and Bird hit a three-run home run, his third homer in the last seven games.
Chad Green, Robertson and Chapman combined for three hitless innings in relief, and Frazier cemented the win with a solo home run in the eighth.
All we needed was an invitation, Frazier said, referring to the postseason party.
We got that invitation today.
Girardi credited the postseason berth to virtually everyone in the organization, from the owners and Cashman down to the trainers.
When spring training began in February, the Yankees were not considered a top contender.
Photo

Going into spring training, I wasnt sure, Girardi said.
But coming out of spring training, I felt really good about our team.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Pitcher C. C. Sabathia, another long-serving Yankee, was also optimistic about the teams chances, based on the raw talent he saw from the beginning and on the moves Cashman made to reinforce the roster.
Obviously, the front office knew what they were doing, Sabathia said.
The last time the Yankees were in the postseason was 2015, but Sabathia did not attend the wild-card loss to the Houston Astros because he had admitted himself to a rehabilitation center to deal with alcoholism.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
On Saturday he stood mostly to the side of the clubhouse and watched the revelry with a huge smile on his face.
It feels good, he said, just to be able to get back in the playoffs, obviously, and be able to help the team.
It feels good.
The party raged on as players and coaches soaked in the moment.
Were getting after it a little bit right now, Frazier said.
Well deserved.
Well be back to business again tomorrow.
Weve still got a division to try and win, too.
This is a good team, and we all know what to do.
INSIDE PITCH

Luis Severino was struck in the upper back with a baseball during batting practice, but he said he was O.K.
An intruder got past stadium security on Friday and into the Yankees clubhouse, but he was caught and arrested after trying to steal a helmet and some baseballs.
The trade comes after a tumultuous summer for the Knicks, who fired Phil Jackson after a disastrous tenure as team president and hired Scott Perry as the new general manager.
It became increasingly clear that Perry, along with Steve Mills, who was promoted to team president in the wake of Jacksons departure, wanted to move on from Anthony.
Both Perry and Mills have repeatedly expressed their desire to commit the struggling Knicks to a rebuilding plan that would emphasize youth and defense.
Although they did not say so directly, that description seemed to leave no role for the 6-foot-8-inch Anthony, who has never been much of a defender and is fairly old by basketball standards.
With Saturdays deal, the Knicks signaled the continuation of a youth movement centered on Kristaps Porzingis, their 22-year-old power forward.
But their defense remains in some doubt.
Kanter, a 25-year-old center from Turkey, averaged 14.3 points in 21.3 minutes a game for the Thunder last season.
But Billy Donovan, the coach of the Thunder, had such little faith in Kanters defensive abilities that he could not keep him on the court in a playoff series against the Rockets last season.
In May, Kanter made international headlines when he was detained in Romania after the Turkish government canceled his travel documents.
Kanter, who was later allowed to return to the United States, has been an outspoken critic of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
Shortly after news of the trade broke, Kanter posted a heartfelt farewell to Oklahoma City.
McDermott, a 25-year-old forward, averaged 9 points a game last season.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Thunder will be Anthonys third N.B.A.
team in a professional career that began in 2003, when he was selected by the Denver Nuggets with the No.
3 pick in the draft not long after he led Syracuse to an N.C.A.A.
championship as an 18-year-old freshman.
Anthony went on to spend seven and a half seasons with the Nuggets before forcing a trade to the Knicks in February 2011.
It was a controversial deal that the Knicks owner, James Dolan, approved over the objections of Donnie Walsh, who was then the team president.
Walsh did not want to surrender so many players to acquire Anthony when the Knicks could have simply waited a few more months and tried to sign him as a free agent.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
With the Knicks, Anthony continued to play at a high level and was an All-Star in each of his six full seasons with the team.
He appeared in 412 regular-season games for them, averaging 24.7 points, 7 rebounds and 3.2 assists while shooting 44.3 percent from the field and 36.9 percent from 3-point range.
For much of his tenure at Madison Square Garden, he was also the teams most popular player  a reputation owing to his wizardry on offense, his generally friendly demeanor and the fact that he had roots in New York, having been born in Red Hook, Brooklyn, before moving to Baltimore.
Still, he had his detractors, too, including many fans (and coaches) who believed he was too focused on manufacturing shots for himself rather than creating for his teammates.
And Anthonys individual success with the Knicks did not translate into something larger.
He led them into the playoffs three times, but only once, in 2013, was he able to get them past the first round.
In his final four seasons with the Knicks, they had an almost unthinkable record of 117-211.
Amid this long stretch of futility, Anthony underwent knee surgery in February 2015 and missed the remainder of that season.
In the two seasons that followed, he looked, at times, older and slower, although he was still a premier player.
He also became an increasingly unhappy one under Jackson, who wanted the Knicks to employ the triangle offense he had used in winning a record 11 championships as an N.B.A.
coach in Chicago and Los Angeles.
But Anthony, many of his teammates and, for that matter, much of the N.B.A.
felt the intricacies of the triangle were out of date in a league that was beginning to emphasize high-tempo play, as exemplified by the Warriors.
Still, it was Anthonys opposition to the triangle that stood out and no doubt irked Jackson, who resorted to aiming barbs at Anthony on social media, perhaps to help convince him that he would be better off elsewhere.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Instead, it was Jackson who was forced out, in part because of the rift he created with Anthony as well as a separate one that arose between Jackson and the Knicks other standout player, Porzingis.
Jacksons ouster initially made Anthony, with two years still to go on his Knicks contract, look like the survivor.
But Mills, who had spent three seasons working under Jackson, had other ideas.
First, he spent an enormous amount of money to reacquire Tim Hardaway Jr., a 25-year-old, 6-6 swingman who had originally been drafted by the Knicks before Jackson traded him.
Hardaway gave Mills a player with offensive skills that could help make up for the void left by Anthonys departure.
Once Perry joined the organization, he began to search for a team that wanted Anthony and where Anthony would actually be willing to go.
He found a landing spot in Oklahoma City, which has a dynamic offense led by Westbrook and a top-shelf scorer in George, whom the Thunder acquired in an off-season trade with the Indiana Pacers.
With the Thunder, Anthony now has a more realistic chance of winning his first N.B.A.
championship, although the Warriors remain an imposing obstacle.
As for the Knicks, Anthony leaves behind a ragged trail of brilliant and disappointing moments, all of it colored by seemingly endless dysfunction.
He loved playing in New York and being a part of the citys fabric.
But for Anthony, the Knicks and all of their many impassioned fans, his long run here ended up as a profoundly bittersweet experience.
This is a barely recognizable president.
It also is a barely recognizable generation of pro athletes.
Thank God for the latter.
Photo

Just as the president lays his hand on the third rail of race, the athletes are responding.
The N.B.A.
point guard Chris Paul:

To which LeBron James added his own message:

And Bishop Sankey, a Vikings running back:

Other athletes and the presidents of the N.F.L.
and N.B.A.
player unions have followed suit.
But in the surest and most striking sign of tectonic movements, N.F.L.
Commissioner Roger Goodell, as careful and conservative a leader as youll find in pro sports, felt compelled to call out the president on Saturday.
(Trump, in an Emperor Nero complaining about the desultory quality of the gladiators moment, also lamented in Alabama that the N.F.L.
had become insufficiently violent.)
Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the N.F.L., our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities, Goodell said in a statement.
Its not clear how this plays with Goodells masters in N.F.L.
ownership.
They donated many millions to Trumps presidential campaign; the New England Patriots owner, Robert K. Kraft, showered $1 million on the inaugural and has been a vocal ally; and the Patriots coach, Bill Belichick, wrote a letter endorsing him last fall.
To summarize this exquisite collision of sports, politics and business: The 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick knelt during the national anthem last season, stirring a national debate about patriotism and the treatment of blacks by the police.
For that, the N.F.L.
owners appear to have blackballed him from the league this year.
For that, more players have taken up Kaepernicks cause.
And for that, President Trump disparaged the league and challenged the owners to fire players for exercising their right to free speech  which they have effectively done to Kaepernick already.
And now Kaepernicks once lonely protest suddenly has many more supporters.
Let me pause here.
For more than a decade, athletes have been chipping at the shells that so many owners, college boosters and media executives had wished upon them.
College athletes have tried to organize unions and challenged the N.C.A.A.
in court.
N.F.L.
players have revitalized their once broken-down union; N.B.A.
stars have spoken out on all manner of issues.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

They have been active citizens, and that is stirring.
This cuts both ways.
If an athlete were to engage in protests against, say, abortion or gay rights, that would be no less in keeping with our nations finest free speech traditions.
Photo

Its striking how completely the president has stood this principle on its head.
He taunted N.F.L.
owners, urging them to fire players who engage in anthem protests.
Theyll be the most popular person in this country, Trump said, because thats a total disrespect of our heritage, thats a total disrespect of everything that we stand for.
The presidents invocation of heritage has become his favorite dog whistle; it also deeply misconstrues our traditions.
Ill recruit my departed father into this scrum.
Like many young men of his generation, he volunteered to fight in World War II, and he flew missions on a B-17 bomber.
Years later, when Vietnam and civil rights and labor struggles bubbled, and protesters sat out anthems and even burned flags, his view was unwavering: He had fought for an America in which citizens could speak and dissent freely and act morally.
Whats notable is how measured the athletes have tried to remain, until poked and prodded.
James appeared in a video for Michael Bloombergs global forum.
I hope and I pray that all of you know how much all of us need you now, he told the assembled corporate and societal leaders.
Curry has not been as explicitly political as James in recent years, but he did not sidestep the moment.
President Trump said he was barring Curry from the White House, but Curry had already made a case for not going.
By acting and not going, hopefully that will inspire some change, he said, when it comes to what we tolerate in this country and what is accepted and what we turn a blind eye to.
The president is an expert provocateur, and one does well not to underrate him.
But notice how the athletes eyes are so wide open.
Photo

For the first time since April 30, the Mets ace, Noah Syndergaard, took the mound in a major league game on Saturday.
As planned, he pitched just the first inning before giving way to Matt Harvey in a 4-3 loss to the Washington Nationals in 10 innings.
Syndergaard, who has been recovering from a partially torn right latissimus muscle, allowed a hit but threw only five pitches in the scoreless inning.
It was great to see him out there, Manager Terry Collins said.
With a week left in the season, Syndergaard was running out of time to rebuild enough arm strength to start a game for the Mets.
He previously made two minor league rehabilitation starts and threw one simulated game.
His fastball registered 99 miles per hour on the radar gun, normal for Syndergaard, a hard-throwing right-hander.
He gave up a single to Jayson Werth but erased Werth from the bases by getting Daniel Murphy to hit into a double play.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

One inning is all I needed to get my feet wet and go into the off-season healthy, said Syndergaard, who is expected to make one more start this season.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
He added, I felt like I needed it, because Ive put in so much work over the past five months.
While past acquisitions were seen as growth-oriented moves in a business  live sports and broadcasting  that thrived as other forms of media experienced headwinds, even live sports faces a challenging environment now.
Dominant companies like ESPN are showing signs of struggle, and according to some industry experts, multimedia marketing has not grown as much as some expected.
In that light, the potential merger  which would eliminate duplicative functions and most likely include some layoffs  seems less aggressive and more cautious, the corporate equivalent of the prevent defense.
The multimedia rights that companies like IMG and Learfield buy and sell are not the rights to broadcast games themselves  those are typically sold by conferences to large broadcasters like ESPN, Fox and CBS.
Instead, they sell the rights to radio broadcasts of the games and surrounding programming, including on digital platforms, and they sell ads in places like game-day programs and the stadium video board.
Photo

At major sports programs, these rights are often the third or fourth biggest revenue streams for athletics departments, behind TV rights fees, ticket sales and fund-raising.
It is difficult to compare how much each school earns from these rights because the deals can be constructed in creative ways.
But, for example, in 2014 Learfield bought Alabamas multimedia rights for 10 years in a deal worth $15 million to $16 million annually.
George Pyne, who was the president of IMG Sports and Entertainment when it entered the college athletics business, said the demographics of college sports fans  a young, wealthy and diverse fan base of almost 200 million people  attracted IMG.
The company also wanted to take advantage of a multimedia marketing business that was fragmented and localized.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
One of the big challenges in monetizing college sports is that the most important programs are not necessarily in the largest media markets.
If you are a national sponsor, and say you want to be in the top 25 markets, said Tom Stultz, president of JMI Sports, which owns Kentuckys and Clemsons multimedia rights, that doesnt necessarily include Tuscaloosa, Ala.
If a company could acquire the multimedia marketing rights for enough colleges, it would effectively have a large enough network to sell sponsorships nationally.
But the theory hasnt necessarily been matched by the reality.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We all thought that there were opportunities to really grow the business, Stultz said.
I think there has been some success of that, but not what everybody thought it would be.
Learfield and IMG are betting on the idea that their previous scale was not enough, and the solution is even greater scale, a one-stop shop for any advertiser wanting to reach the vast landscape of college sports fans.
With the multimedia rights to about 85 percent of the major programs  as well as some associated licensing, naming rights and ticketing businesses  the merged Learfield and IMG will come as close to that as possible.
There is no question of power and efficiencies in big business, Palisi said.
But the merger is also a retrenchment.
Both companies are structured similarly, and when combined will have redundant functions.
The euphemistic efficiencies that will come from the merger are likely to include layoffs.
Perhaps reduced costs will achieve the profits that scale alone could not.
Given that the new company will be the dominant player in the industry, the potential merger will surely attract antitrust scrutiny.
In 2010, when IMG purchased ISP Sports, the Justice Department closely examined the purchase and raised some concerns, before eventually approving it.
If the market is defined specifically as college athletics multimedia marketing  as opposed to the entire college sports business, or the more general sports multimedia marketing  the merger could be in trouble.
The Justice Department declined to comment on the proposed merger.
Pyne said he thought the idea that the merged company would monopolize the business was overblown.
There are no barriers to entry in college sports, and I dont think that is ever going to change, he said.
The schools will have the final say in how their products and services are distributed to their fans.
U bum @StephenCurry30 already said he aint going!
So therefore aint no invite.
Going to White House was a great honor until you showed up!
Mr. James wrote on Twitter.
Mr. James later elaborated in a video on Instagram.
Mr. Trump also drew an unusually strong rebuke from the commissioner of the N.F.L., whose owners include many donors to, and friends of, the president.
Mr. Trump made the commissioner, Roger Goodell, a foil, accusing him of stoking disrespect for the country by defending players who protest the anthem.
The Warriors, who play in a league that sometimes promotes social issues and whose owners and players have been known to denounce the president, said in a statement they would use a visit to Washington in February to highlight issues of diversity and inclusiveness.
By midafternoon, a spokesman for the University of North Carolina national championship basketball team confirmed the team would not be going to the White House, but he said it was a scheduling conflict, not a response to the days back-and-forth.
Photo

Many athletes have been moved to comment on race and social justice more frequently in the past year after a series of police shootings of unarmed African-Americans and the support Mr. Trump has received from white supremacists.
Last year, Colin Kaepernick, then a quarterback for the San Francisco 49ers, began kneeling during the playing of the national anthem, to highlight, he has said, police brutality and racial injustice.
He left the team this season and has not worked since, inspiring debate over whether teams are punishing him, while many players have knelt or made gestures in support of him during the anthem.
At the same time, some owners of N.F.L.
teams have suggested that players should not take part in political demonstrations during games.
None appeared to speak up for Mr. Trump on Saturday, while some of the owners who have donated primarily to left-leaning causes and politicians put out statements critical of him.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its unfortunate that the president decided to use his immense platform to make divisive and offensive statements about our players and the N.F.L., said Mark Murphy, the president and chief executive of the Green Bay Packers.
Mr. Trumps outbursts against athletes and their leagues came as he was smarting from yet another setback in his effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act, and as he worked to stoke enthusiasm among his core supporters in the deeply conservative state of Alabama, where he attended a campaign rally for Mr.
Strange, whom many of them regard as an establishment Republican unworthy of their backing.
The president often uses freewheeling campaign speeches and Twitter to berate and insult critics in unvarnished language and to whip up core supporters.
In the past week, he branded North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un, as Rocket Man and criticized Senator John McCain of Arizona for opposing Republican attempts to dismantle the health care law.
But Mr. Trumps broadsides this time focused on some of the most prominent African-American athletes in the country, who have international followings and have called out the president for his lack of tolerance and his divisive views on race.
They come about a week after the president called on ESPN to apologize after Jemele Hill, one of the sports networks anchors, who is black, referred to him on Twitter as a white supremacist and a bigot.
Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said Ms. Hills utterances were a firing offense.
The denial of a visit to the White House by the Warriors was not the first time the president tried to pre-empt a snub by dealing one of his own; last month, he abruptly announced that he was disbanding two of his business advisory councils after some members said they would resign from them to protest his equivocating response to racially charged violence in Charlottesville, Va., at a march organized by neo-Nazis and white supremacists.
At the Alabama rally, Mr. Trump said the protests at football games would stop if fans left when players did not stand for the anthem.
The only thing you could do better is if you see it, even if its one player, leave the stadium, he said.
Photo

With the N.F.L.
struggling to make the game safer in light of scores of players who have been found to have severe brain damage from hard hits, Mr. Trump complained that the game was being ruined by referees trying to control unnecessarily rough tackles.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Today if you hit too hard  15 yards!
Throw him out of the game!
he said, adding: Theyre ruining the game!
Theyre ruining the game.
Thats what they want to do.
They want to hit.
They want to hit!
It is hurting the game.
In his rebuke of the president, Mr. Goodell, the N.F.L.
commissioner, said the president failed to understand how the league and its players work together to create a sense of unity in our country and our culture.
Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the N.F.L., our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities, he said in a statement.
The players union also criticized Mr. Trump.
Mr. Goodell, who leads a league in which about three-quarters of the players are black while about the same percentage of fans are white, has tried to find a middle ground between the players and his bosses, the owners of the leagues 32 teams.
More than half a dozen owners contributed to Mr. Trumps inauguration, and many of them donate heavily to conservative causes.
Some owners, including Robert K. Kraft of the New England Patriots, consider Mr. Trump a personal friend.
Coincidentally, the owners are now discussing whether to renew Mr. Goodells contract, which expires in 2019.
Even before the presidents remarks, the league had been trying to weave its way through an often fierce and uncomfortable debate inside the N.F.L.
and among fans about whether the anthem protests disrespect the military and country or are simply an effective way to publicize issues players want to highlight.
Mr. Trump has a history of antagonizing the N.F.L., dating to the 1980s, when he and the fledgling United States Football League successfully sued it for antitrust violations.
Though Mr. Trump won in court, his efforts bankrupted the U.S.F.L.
His name surfaced in 2014 as a potential buyer for the Buffalo Bills.
The presidents comments seemed to embolden players.
Detroit Lions tight end Eric Ebron questioned why players were told not to talk about politics, yet the president could speak about sports.
Does anyone tell trump to stick to politics, like they tell us to stick to sports?
he wrote.
He added smh for shaking my head.
Michael Thomas, a defensive back with the Miami Dolphins, urged fellow players not to back down.
Continue to use your voices and your platforms for racial equality and to stop injustices in our communities, he wrote on Twitter.
This is bigger than us!!
Its a scary thing, he said.
He gradually started to feel like his old self, and then his comeback received a boost in the form of a call from the tournament director Todd Rhinehart, who offered him an exemption into last Octobers CIMB Classic.
The decision, Rhinehart said in an email from Malaysia, was a no-brainer because Perez had supported the CIMB Classic for so many years.
He added, We have been so happy for him to have such a wonderful year and bounce back the way he has.
A grateful Perez tied for 33rd in Malaysia and recorded top-seven finishes in his next three starts, including his second career tour victory at the OHL Classic at Mayakoba.
The win, his first since the 2009 Bob Hope Classic, propelled Perez, 41, to his best season, culminating in his first appearance in the FedEx Cup playoff season finale.
He is the oldest player in this weeks field and the third-oldest Tour Championship rookie, after the 44-year-old Vijay Singh in the playoffs first year in 2007 and the 42-year-old Jerry Kelly in 2009.
The fact that Im here, for one, and have done it at 41, coming back from surgery, its just fantasy land, said Perez, who is two-under par through 54 holes, 10 strokes behind the leader, Paul Casey.
Perez, Casey, 40, Charley Hoffman, 40, and Jason Dufner, 40, are the only four players over 39 in the field.
Photo

I never thought it would take me this long to get here, Perez added, but its all worked out.
Perez is a digression to this seasons millennials rule narrative.
Three of four major winners (Brooks Koepka, Jordan Spieth and Justin Thomas) are 27 or younger and nine players under the age of 26 combined for 17 official tour victories.
But Perez is roughly the same age as James Michener when he published the first of his more than 40 books, and he hopes his story will be an inspiration to late bloomers everywhere.
All these kids that are coming up going, Man, Ive got to be that or Im not going to be that great because these guys are doing it now and Im not doing it,  said Perez, who thought it was hard enough having to play in the shadow of the 79-time tour winner Tiger Woods, who is two months older.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
That was just one player, and you knew you were going to lose to him at least nine times a year, which was fine because that gave you a lot of other tournaments that you could win, Perez said.
Now, any of these kids can win.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Led by Spieth, six players aged 28 or younger entered the week ranked ahead of Perez, who was 11th in the FedEx Cup standings.
For Perez to beat these young punks, as he affectionately refers to the gym rat pack, and win the FedEx Cup title, he needs to win the Tour Championship and have a lot of other dominoes fall: Spieth must finish tied for sixth or worse; Thomas must place in a three-way tie for third or worse; Dustin Johnson must finish in a three-way tie for second or worse; Marc Leishman must place in a tie for second or worse; and Jon Rahm must finish tied for second or worse.
Or as Perez put it, Its about the same odds as the Powerball.
Perez faced about the same probabilities of reaching the par-5 18th green in two after his first-round drive found the right rough.
In his earlier, more volatile, days, he almost certainly would have gone for the green, anyway, almost as if to punish himself for his previous shot, and ended up making a bogey or worse.
But while Perez was idle, he watched a lot of tournament golf on television, and what he saw prompted him to adopt a more prudent, less punitive, course management style.
He knocked his second shot back into the fairway, short of the water hazard, hit a 227-yard third shot into a greenside bunker, then got up and down to save par.
The juice wasnt worth the squeeze, Perez said.
I hit it in the water there and I make seven, I would have basically wasted the whole day to shoot even.
Perez came back from his injury wiser, but also less angry.
Instead of dwelling on the slights, he focuses on all the reasons he has to be grateful: his wife; his globe-trotting life; and Rhineharts exemption, which kick-started his comeback.
Im just a 41-year-old guy that had a great year, for once, and just hoping to continue on and see how much better I can get, he said.
Photo

OAKLAND, Calif.  Bruce Maxwell, a rookie catcher for the Oakland Athletics, on Saturday became the first Major League Baseball player to kneel during the national anthem.
Maxwell, 26, dropped to a knee just outside Oaklands dugout before a game against the Texas Rangers, adopting a protest started by the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick in response to police treatment of black Americans.
Maxwells teammates stood in a line next to him, and Mark Canha put his right hand on Maxwells shoulder.
The Athletics released a statement on Twitter shortly after the anthem, saying they respect and support all of our players constitutional rights and freedom of expression and pride ourselves on being inclusive.
Major League Baseball also issued a statement, saying it has a longstanding tradition of honoring our nation prior to the start of our games but that we also respect that each of our players is an individual with his own background, perspectives and opinions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Maxwells gesture came after President Trump denounced anthem protests by N.F.L.
players and rescinded a White House invitation to the N.B.A.s Stephen Curry in a two-day rant that targeted top professional athletes.
The debate over any visit proved irrelevant, however, when Mr. Trump weighed in on the subject with a tweet on Saturday.
The response from players was swift.
Several players in both leagues condemned the announcement, in a throwback of sorts to the days when political statements by star athletes like Muhammad Ali, Bill Russell, Tommie Smith and John Carlos were more common.
Potentially the boldest response to Mr. Trump came from the Warriors chief rival, LeBron James of the Cleveland Cavaliers:

Mr. Curry was also supported by Chris Paul, the Houston Rockets point guard, who also happens to be the president of the N.B.A.s players association.
While Mr. Curry has yet to respond, his teammate, the outspoken Draymond Green, unsurprisingly weighed in.
As an organization, the Warriors were far more politically reserved than Mr. Green, saying in a statement, In lieu of a visit to the White House, we have decided that well constructively use our trip to the nations capital in February to celebrate equality, diversity and inclusion  the values that we embrace as an organization.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
No stranger to controversy involving Mr. Trump, Jemele Hill, the ESPN host, also supported Mr. Curry.
Ms. Hill was recently embroiled in a debate centered on her reference to the president as a white supremacist, and his offices call for her firing.
Mr. Trump has found just as swift a response from players and personalities connected to the N.F.L.
over his comments about players like Colin Kaepernick who have sat or knelt during the national anthem to protest the treatment of black people by the police.
At a rally in Alabama, Trump said: Wouldnt you love to see one of these N.F.L.
owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, Get that son of a bitch off the field right now.
Hes fired!
Hes fired!
Among the players to respond to Trumps statements was Chris Conley, a wide receiver for the Kansas City Chiefs.
In a series of strongly-worded tweets, Martellus Bennett, a tight end for the Green Bay Packers, said he was fine with being fired for what he believes in and rejected the labels put on players by the president.
Richard Sherman, the outspoken Seattle Seahawks cornerback, said:

The topic seemed to elicit opinions from all over, with Sean Combs, the businessman and music mogul, asking N.F.L.
players to make a statement before tomorrows games.
And none other than Ed Asner, the 87-year-old actor, tackled the subject.
Amid all the chaos online, Ayesha Curry, the wife of Stephen, took the high road in the matter, refocusing the discussion on bigger events going on around the world.
After the home lost power to its air-conditioning, 11 of its residents died.
Records and interviews show a preventable descent into chaos.
Heres what you need to know about the weeks top stories.
There is a new lineup of lobbyists in Washington making deals and offering access.
Nicholas Confessore spoke with Robert Stryk about how he has leveraged relationships in the Trump administration for political and business success.
Get a weekly roundup of the best advice from The Times on living a better, smarter, more fulfilling life.
A tragic romance, a comedy special and one of the years biggest hits.
Advice from experts on the best ways to apply your daily makeup and, along the way, clear up a few confounding makeup questions.
After revelations of harassment and bias in Silicon Valley, a backlash is growing against the women in tech movement.
Officials said a sweep was intended to deter parents in the United States from illegally paying smugglers to bring their children into the country.
A go-to agent in a lucrative industry that depends on global connections speaks up about allegations that it earned millions through graft.
Barry Diller was about to win the battle for his $250 million arts pier, but then came the petty questions from his opponents and he decided to pull the plug.
Amid natural disasters, terrorist attacks and the North Korea nuclear crisis, it is not just camouflage-clad cave dwellers who are prepping for doomsday.
Little research has been done on bats in New York.
But a team of researchers in Staten Island are starting to better understand their subjects.
Morning Briefing: Australia Edition The news and stories that matter to readers in Australia.
Sign up to get it by email, Monday through Friday.
Morning Briefing: Asia Edition The news and stories that matter to readers in Asia.
Sign up to get it by email, Monday through Friday.
Morning Briefing: Europe Edition The news and stories that matter to readers in Europe.
Sign up to get it by email, Monday through Friday.
California Today The news and stories that matter to Californians, delivered weekday mornings.
Bill Belichick, the Patriots coach, stood next to Brady during the anthem with his arms crossed in front of his body.
Earlier in the day, Patriots owner Robert K. Kraft issued a statement condemning Trumps attack on the league, saying he was deeply disappointed by the tone of the comments made by the President on Friday.
More Demonstrations in Buffalo, Charlotte and Indianapolis

Reports from 1 p.m. games around the county showed that dozens of Broncos players knelt in Buffalo.
About 10 Saints sat for the anthem at Carolina.
Spectators at the Colts home Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis booed loudly after many of the Browns players kneeled in a huddle during the national anthem.
Colts players locked arms during the anthem despite the boos.
Eagles and Giants Lock Arms in Front of American Flag

Photo

In Philadelphia, Eagles and Giants players and coaches locked arms as a massive American flag was unfurled over the field and military jets performed a flyover.
A few players raised fists or knelt, while Eagles owner Jeffrey Lurie locked arms with his players and police officers.
Steelers Dont Participate in Anthem

The Pittsburgh Steelers did not emerge from the locker room in Chicago during the national anthem before their game against the Bears.
Steelers Coach Mike Tomlin said the team would be unified in their actions, and the empty Pittsburgh bench was a stark image of the teams unity.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Were not going to play politics, Coach Mike Tomlin told CBS before the game.
Were football players, were football coaches.
Were not participating in the anthem today.
Not to be disrespectful to the anthem, but to remove ourselves from this circumstance.
People shouldnt have to choose.
If a guy wants to go about his normal business and participate in the anthem, he shouldnt have to be forced to choose sides.
If a guy feels the need to do something, he shouldnt be separated from his teammate who chooses not to.
So were not participating today.
Tomlin came out alone for the anthem and stood at midfield with his hands behind his back.
Steelers offensive lineman Alejandro Villanueva, a captain in the U.S. Army, stood by the tunnel entrance with his hand over his heart during the ceremony.
Terry Bradshaw Weighs in on Pregame Show

Terry Bradshaw, a hall of fame quarterback and commentator for Fox, said he did not condone protests during the national anthem, but he argued that they should be allowed.
Every American has the right to speak out and also to protest, Bradshaw said.
Believe me, these athletes do love this great country of ours.
Personally, I think our president should concentrate on serious issues like North Korea and health care rather than ripping into athletes and the N.F.L.
Rookie Becomes First Baseball Player to Take a Knee

Bruce Maxwell, a rookie catcher with the Oakland Athletics, became the first athlete to protest during the national anthem in a major-league baseball game on Saturday night.
The point of my kneeling was not to disrespect our military or our constitution or our country, Maxwell told the San Francisco Chronicle after the game.
My hand was over my heart because I love this country and I have family members, including my father, who bled for this country, and who continue to serve.
This goes beyond the black and Hispanic communities because right now we have a racial divide thats being practiced from the highest power we have in this country saying its basically OK to treat people differently.
The National Anthem and Sports in America

The national anthem has been a part of sports in the United States for more than a century, being played at some baseball games as far back as the 19th century.
The Star-Spangled Banner became the nations official anthem in 1931 and its playing increased sharply.
It has been performed for every baseball game since 1942.
Other sports followed.
The United States is an outlier.
In Europe, for example, it is unusual to hear an anthem before a major sporting event.Protests during the American anthem also have a pre-Colin Kaepernick history.
Track athletes Tommie Smith and John Carlos were kicked out of the 1968 Olympics after raising their black-gloved fists during the anthem in support of human rights.
The basketball player Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf declined to stand in 1996 because he considered the flag a symbol of racism and was fined.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Rex Ryan Regrets Supporting Trump

Rex Ryan, the former Jets and Bills coach who once introduced then-presidential candidate Donald Trump at a rally in Buffalo, expressed his regret on the morning show Sunday N.F.L.
Countdown.
Everyones always been united.
Yeah, the views are different but lemme tell you: Im pissed off, said Ryan, who now works as an ESPN commentator.
Ill be honest with you.
Because I supported Donald Trump.
When he asked me to introduce him at a rally in Buffalo, I did that.
But Im reading these comments and its appalling to me and Im sure its appalling to almost any citizen in our country.
It should be.
Photo

Jaguars and Ravens Kneel and Lock Arms During Anthem

In a pointed rebuke of President Trumps call for N.F.L.
owners to fire players who protest during the national anthem, Shahid Khan, the only Muslim owner in the league, locked arms with his Jacksonville Jaguars players on Sunday before their game in London.
During the playing of the national anthem, Khan locked arms with tight end Marcedes Lewis and linebacker Telvin Smith, both of whom are black, on the sidelines to show unity with his players who are trying to highlight social injustice and police brutality against African-Americans.
While the N.F.L.
and several owners issued statements on Saturday saying they supported the players protests and were unhappy with the presidents comments, Khan was the first owner to stand with his players.
Khan is also a Republican and contributed money to the presidents inauguration, and has said he supports the presidents economic policies.
But he is also an immigrant and a Muslim, two groups that the president has routinely attacked.
In February, Khan, who is Pakistani-American, said he opposed the presidents attempt to bar people from some predominantly Muslim countries from entering the United States.
Khans actions will put the spotlight on other team owners.
Owners of the Bills, Lions, Dolphins, Falcons, Rams and Giants were among those who issued statements opposing the presidents comments.
But many prominent owners, including Jerry Jones of the Cowboys and Woody Johnson of the Jets, were silent.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Patriots Owner Robert Kraft Condemns Trumps Criticism

President Trump doubled down on his criticism of N.F.L.
players who take a knee during the national anthem, saying fans should boycott games unless the players are fired or suspended.
Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots and a longtime friend of the presidents, was among the first to reply, saying in a statement:

I am deeply disappointed by the tone of the comments made by the President on Friday.
I am proud to be associated with so many players who make such tremendous contributions in positively impacting our communities.
Their efforts, both on and off the field, help bring people together and make our community stronger.
There is no greater unifier in this country than sports, and unfortunately, nothing more divisive than politics.
I think our political leaders could learn a lot from the lessons of teamwork and the importance of working together toward a common goal.
Our players are intelligent, thoughtful and care deeply about our community and I support their right to peacefully affect social change and raise awareness in a manner that they feel is most impactful.
Paul Tagliabue: Insulting and Disgraceful to Insult Players

Paul Tagliabue, a former commissioner of the N.F.L.
before Roger Goodell, said in a news conference on Sunday that he could not speak for the league since he had retired.
But he said it was insulting and disgraceful to insult particular players, Sports Illustrated reported.
When it comes to speech, theyre entitled to speak, were entitled to listen, were entitled to disagree or agree, for that matter, Tagliabue said.
But were not entitled to shut anybodys speech down.
Sometimes you dont like what you hear; well, thats true of life in lots of contexts.
But you cant shut people down and you cant be disgraceful when youre doing it.
N.F.L.
Owners Add Their Voices to the Chorus

N.F.L.
owners, most of them conservative and many of them large donors to President Trump, joined with Kraft and backed their players rights to protest during the national anthem and condemned Trumps criticism.
Colts owner Jim Irsay said, I am troubled by the presidents recent comments about our league and our players.
Eagles owner Jeffrey Lurie said, I support them as they take their courage character and commitment into our communities to make them better or to call attention to injustice.
Chargers owner Dean Spanos said, The N.F.L.
and its players, more than anything, have been a force for good.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

From Jimmy Haslam, owner of the Cleveland Browns:

We must not let misguided, uninformed and divisive comments from the President or anyone else deter us from our efforts to unify.
Bears chairman George H. McCaskey said in a statement on Sunday morning that what makes this the greatest country in the world are the liberties it was founded upon and the freedom to express oneself in a respectful and peaceful manner.
He said the franchise was unified by this divisive political situation.
On the Field

 Blake Bortles, a name synonymous with quarterback mediocrity, looked like Peyton Manning, throwing for four touchdowns as the Jaguars romped past the Ravens in London, 44-7.
This is a barely recognizable president.
It also is a barely recognizable generation of pro athletes.
Thank God for the latter.
Photo

Just as the president lays his hand on the third rail of race, the athletes are responding.
The N.B.A.
point guard Chris Paul:

To which LeBron James added his own message:

And Bishop Sankey, a Vikings running back:

Other athletes and the presidents of the N.F.L.
and N.B.A.
player unions have followed suit.
But in the surest and most striking sign of tectonic movements, N.F.L.
Commissioner Roger Goodell, as careful and conservative a leader as youll find in pro sports, felt compelled to call out the president on Saturday.
(Trump, in an Emperor Nero complaining about the desultory quality of the gladiators moment, also lamented in Alabama that the N.F.L.
had become insufficiently violent.)
Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the N.F.L., our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities, Goodell said in a statement.
Its not clear how this plays with Goodells masters in N.F.L.
ownership.
They donated many millions to Trumps presidential campaign; the New England Patriots owner, Robert K. Kraft, showered $1 million on the inaugural and has been a vocal ally; and the Patriots coach, Bill Belichick, wrote a letter endorsing him last fall.
To summarize this exquisite collision of sports, politics and business: The 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick knelt during the national anthem last season, stirring a national debate about patriotism and the treatment of blacks by the police.
For that, the N.F.L.
owners appear to have blackballed him from the league this year.
For that, more players have taken up Kaepernicks cause.
And for that, President Trump disparaged the league and challenged the owners to fire players for exercising their right to free speech  which they have effectively done to Kaepernick already.
And now Kaepernicks once lonely protest suddenly has many more supporters.
Let me pause here.
For more than a decade, athletes have been chipping at the shells that so many owners, college boosters and media executives had wished upon them.
College athletes have tried to organize unions and challenged the N.C.A.A.
in court.
N.F.L.
players have revitalized their once broken-down union; N.B.A.
stars have spoken out on all manner of issues.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

They have been active citizens, and that is stirring.
This cuts both ways.
If an athlete were to engage in protests against, say, abortion or gay rights, that would be no less in keeping with our nations finest free speech traditions.
Photo

Its striking how completely the president has stood this principle on its head.
He taunted N.F.L.
owners, urging them to fire players who engage in anthem protests.
Theyll be the most popular person in this country, Trump said, because thats a total disrespect of our heritage, thats a total disrespect of everything that we stand for.
The presidents invocation of heritage has become his favorite dog whistle; it also deeply misconstrues our traditions.
Ill recruit my departed father into this scrum.
Like many young men of his generation, he volunteered to fight in World War II, and he flew missions on a B-17 bomber.
Years later, when Vietnam and civil rights and labor struggles bubbled, and protesters sat out anthems and even burned flags, his view was unwavering: He had fought for an America in which citizens could speak and dissent freely and act morally.
Whats notable is how measured the athletes have tried to remain, until poked and prodded.
James appeared in a video for Michael Bloombergs global forum.
I hope and I pray that all of you know how much all of us need you now, he told the assembled corporate and societal leaders.
Curry has not been as explicitly political as James in recent years, but he did not sidestep the moment.
President Trump said he was barring Curry from the White House, but Curry had already made a case for not going.
By acting and not going, hopefully that will inspire some change, he said, when it comes to what we tolerate in this country and what is accepted and what we turn a blind eye to.
The president is an expert provocateur, and one does well not to underrate him.
But notice how the athletes eyes are so wide open.
Photo

HUNTSVILLE, Ala.  President Trump said on Friday night that N.F.L.
owners should fire players who kneel during the national anthem, and he encouraged spectators to walk out of stadiums in protest.
In an extended riff during a speech in Alabama, Trump also bemoaned what he sees as less violence in football games.
Theyre ruining the game, he complained.
Several athletes, including a handful of N.F.L.
players, have refused to stand during The Star-Spangled Banner to protest of the treatment of minorities by the police.
Quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who started the trend last year when he played for the San Francisco 49ers, has not been signed by a team for this season.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Trump says those players are disrespecting the flag and deserve to lose their jobs.
Thats a total disrespect of our heritage.
Thats a total disrespect of everything that we stand for, he said, encouraging owners to act.
Mr. Hernandez stood trial for first-degree murder in Massachusetts, where state law requires the government to prove all elements of a crime, including criminal responsibility, beyond a reasonable doubt.
The prosecution was able to provide the details of Mr. Lloyds murder with a tight timeline that placed Mr. Hernandez at the scene of the murder, though his lawyer maintained that his client was no more than a witness to the crime.
The government also provided a theory to establish Mr. Hernandezs motive to kill Mr. Lloyd  anger over gossip  and his ample opportunity to premeditate and deliberate.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But under the Massachusetts formulation of the insanity defense, if he were tried today, Mr. Hernandez might successfully assert that, when he killed Mr. Lloyd, he suffered a mental defect that rendered him substantially unable to conform his conduct to the requirements of the law, utterly unable to make himself behave as the law requires.
Could the evidence of C.T.E.
now create a reasonable doubt about his criminal responsibility?
Almost certainly.
Football players in the United States are disproportionately charged with crimes of violence as compared with other professional athletes.
One explanation might suggest that participating in a sport that demands aggression and violence selects the most aggressive and violent men for its ranks.
An alternative but equally simple explanation might be that aggressive and violent men are naturally drawn to compete in an aggressive and violent sport.
And, of course, when large, strong men who have been taught to be aggressive find themselves in a conflict, they are more than capable of responding with brutal force.
After all, thats what theyre paid to do on the football field.
But C.T.E.
deprives such players of the ability to handle disputes rationally.
Indeed, being afflicted with C.T.E.
may well equate to insanity.
Thats enough to excuse  at least legally  the potentially criminal, violent actions of former N.F.L.
players in many states.
The Boston University study was published too late to help Aaron Hernandez.
He had died  probably because his damaged brain could not reason well enough to prevent him from hanging himself  several weeks earlier.
But given what we now know about the prevalence of C.T.E.
in high-level athletes, especially football players, the field is open for lawyers to begin to show juries just why their clients are unable to conform their conduct and control their emotional impulses.
There are many avenues for intervention on behalf of the men who have spent years treating their heads like battering rams for high salaries.
For those men who commit violent crimes, the legal community might start by seeing them as mentally incapacitated individuals with significantly impaired impulse control.
Aaron Hernandez should be sitting in a therapeutic hospital receiving care for a profound brain injury.
Instead, his ashes sit with his family.
Suicide appears to be another result of C.T.E.
Because of the post-mortem C.T.E.
diagnosis, we now know there was substantial evidence that Mr. Hernandez should not have been convicted of first-degree murder.
Given the conclusive diagnosis of Stage 3 C.T.E., it is likely that a lifetime of playing football  not Mr. Hernandezs will  was to blame.
The science itself  like most attempts to link brain biology to behavior  is murkier.
In recent decades, researchers have made extraordinary strides in understanding the workings of brain cells, neural circuits and anatomy.
Photo

Yet drawing a direct line from those basic findings to what people do out in the world is dicey, given the ineffable interplay between circumstance, relationships and personality.
What scientists  from such diverse fields as psychiatry, neurology and substance use  can say is that the arrows seem to be pointing in the same direction.
A number of brain states raise the risk of acting out violently, and the evidence so far, while incomplete, suggests that C.T.E.
may be one of them.
Dr. Samuel Gandy, director of the N.F.L.
neurology program at Mount Sinai Medical Center, said that rage and irritability are far and away the most prominent symptoms among former players with likely C.T.E., in his research.
His group has identified 10 of 24 former players who probably have C.T.E.
Scientists at Boston University, who reported the findings on Mr. Hernandez, have described similar behavior in many of the more than 100 players they have evaluated.
The caveat for both research efforts is that these samples are selective: Almost all of the players had signs of possible C.T.E.
before being studied, which led the players and their families to participate and to donate their brains for research.
It may still be that most of the athletes in violent sports who develop the signature brain pathology, especially at modest levels, are no more irritable than anyone else.
But an important hint to the contrary comes from a more mature corner of brain science: dementia research.
People with advanced dementia often begin to act in uncharacteristically aggressive ways, as many caregivers can attest.
In a recent study of dementia patients, Swedish researchers found that 97 of 281 dementia patients had a history of aggression.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Those who acted out earliest in the progression of their disease had so-called frontotemporal degeneration  that is, damage concentrated in the frontal and temporal lobes of the brain.
This is where C.T.E.
shows up, too.
In frontotemporal degeneration, a purported association has been made with criminal behavior, said Kevin Bieniek, a research fellow in the Dickson Neuropathology Lab at the Mayo Clinic College of Medicine in Jacksonville, Fla.
Different disease, but some clinical and pathological parallels to C.T.E.
All of this is far from definitive, given the wide variety of factors that affect motivation and impulsive behavior.
Substance abuse is a prominent example.
Mr. Hernandez was no stranger to illicit drugs, according to testimony at his murder trial.
Studies strongly suggest that people who are mentally unstable, particularly those with severe paranoia, are more likely to become violent when under the influence of alcohol or other drugs.
Photo

The link between steroids  such as testosterone  and rage is another confounding factor.
It is rarely clear in mature athletes whether they have used performance-enhancing drugs, or how much.
Testosterone aggravates aggression in the absence of pathology, said Dr. Gandy.
If theres pathology, its likely to make things worse.
As cases like Mr. Hernandezs and others continue to move into the courts, judges will be making decisions based on limited, piecemeal scientific evidence.
These wont be easy decisions to make.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The only way to diagnose C.T.E.
is at autopsy.
A number of scientists, including Dr. Gandys group, are working to refine brain imaging tests intended to detect the signature pathology in living patients.
Those tests are not yet definitive.
Over the past decade, many courts have been reluctant to admit brain scans as exculpatory evidence.
Theres no serious argument about whether violence comes from the brain, said Owen Jones, director of the MacArthur Foundation Research Network on Law and Neuroscience at Vanderbilt University.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its just hard to make a credible claim that a particular brain injury has caused a particular act of violence.
Former players would also have to prove that the head hits they received in the N.F.L.
directly led to their troubles off the field, which is a high bar, especially for those, like Hernandez, who also played football in college and in childhood.
The league might also argue that Hernandez knew there was a risk he could be injured playing in the N.F.L., particularly because he had played the game for more than a decade before he was drafted.
Even if the league has a high probability of convincing a judge of all these arguments, the Hernandez familys lawyer, Jose Baez, might be banking on the N.F.L.
to settle the case to avoid bad publicity.
The league, though, is known to stand its ground because it wants to stop other players from suing as well.
Theres always a shot in the dark to bring the league to the table, said Jodi Balsam, a former lawyer at the N.F.L.
who teaches at Brooklyn Law School.
These cases come up all the time, and there will be more of them if they settle this without a fight.
Indeed, in a conference call with reporters on Friday, Joe Lockhart, a spokesman for the league, said that the N.F.L.
would vigorously fight the suit and that the Hernandez family would face significant legal issues.
Any attempt here to paint Aaron Hernandez as a victim, we believe, is misguided, he added.
Lockhart also cast doubt on those who are trying to connect football to C.T.E., or chronic traumatic encephalopathy, as well as C.T.E.
to violence and suicide.
The science, he said, is far from settled.
While researchers have found links between C.T.E.
and symptoms like rage, depression and irritability, they cannot definitively say that the disease predicts the behavior.
Also complicating the research is that C.T.E.
can only be diagnosed posthumously, so scientists rely on a limited number of brains donated for research.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Nobody can say football and the head hits created Aaron Hernandez and his behavior, said Brad Sohn, a lawyer who has sued the N.F.L.
on behalf of former players.
But the pathology should scare anyone with a rational bone in his body.
He had a raisin-like brain of a 70-year-old even though he was 27.
Still, despite the legal hurdles facing Hernandezs family, they might still receive money from the N.F.L.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Lockhart said the league had a range of benefits available to the families of deceased players, including survivors benefits and annuities.
He also pointed to the class-action settlement that the league reached with retired players in which players who died and were found to have C.T.E.
are eligible for up to $4 million.
That benefit, though, is available only to players who had retired and died before the settlement was approved in federal court in 2015.
So in effect, the settlement would be a Trojan horse.
If the Hernandez family joins the settlement, arguing that he was no longer playing as of 2013 when he was imprisoned, they give up their right to sue the league, Sohn said, without any guarantee of getting money from the settlement.
Balsam, the former N.F.L.
lawyer, suggested that Baez, through the suit, is hoping for the remainder of Hernandezs $40 million contract extension he signed in 2012.
After Hernandez was arrested and charged with murder in June 2013, the Patriots released him and refused to pay him a $3 million bonus he was owed.
The Patriots withheld the money because Hernandezs conduct was detrimental to the team.
But Hernandez, through a quirk in Massachusetts law, has had his murder conviction overturned because he died before his appeal of the case could be heard.
So, in theory, Baez could argue that because Hernandez technically is no longer guilty of murder, the Patriots should repay his family the money he did not receive.
That argument could play out in court over weeks and months, causing the team and the league significant embarrassment.
But the league does not seem to mind sticking it out, even in high-profile cases.
It has declined to settle a wrongful-death suit by another former Patriot, the Hall of Fame linebacker Junior Seau, who also killed himself and was found to have C.T.E.
The N.F.L.
is making clear on every level that they want to take the General Patton approach as long as possible and make it as expensive and challenging for anyone who tries to fight them in court, Sohn said.
So its a question of, whos willing to fight these cases and stand up to the bullies.
Photo

Expectations were rock bottom for a Thursday night game between the Rams and the 49ers.
But the game turned out to be an entertaining shootout, and maybe a breakout performance by Jared Goff.
Goff was the No.
1 overall pick in last years draft by the Rams.
He started seven games, losing them all, and averaged only 156 yards a game, 39th among quarterbacks.
In contrast, the No.
2 pick in the draft, Carson Wentz, was a respectable 7-9 and averaged 23 for the Eagles.
Wentz is still playing well, but now so is Goff.
He and the Rams are off to a 2-1 start, he is averaging 272 yards a game, and his adjusted-yards-per-attempt figure is a dazzling 10.77, trailing only Alex Smith among quarterbacks with two or more starts.
On Thursday he outdueled, er, Brian Hoyer, throwing for 292 yards and three touchdowns without an interception in a 41-39 win.
His passing line was an eye-opening 22-for-28.
He was helped by some fine catches by Robert Woods and Sammy Watkins, who each had 100-yard games.
Goff is 20-for-27 without an interception on third downs, according to Sportradar.
He has also shown the ability to go deep, completing eight passes in which the ball traveled 20 yards or further.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Before we hand the Rams the Lombardi Trophy, lets remember that their wins have come against the woeful Niners and the Colts without Andrew Luck; neither of those teams has a win of their own.
Their loss was against the Redskins, who do not appear exceptional.
Next weeks game at Dallas will be a sterner test.
And the Rams nearly blew a 14-point lead on Thursday night, winning only after a failed 2-point conversion by the 49ers that would have tied the score.
The Rams, now coached by Sean McVay after five years of Jeff Fisher, were 100-1 odds to win the Super Bowl at the start of the season.
But they are suddenly looking like a real offensive team, and they lead the N.F.C.
With Goff proving himself more adept this year, at least against the teams hes faced so far, there is hope in Los Angeles.
The league had already faced public relations problems after other high-profile players were found to have C.T.E., including Junior Seau, Ken Stabler and Frank Gifford.
Mr. Seau  along with Dave Duerson, Andre Waters and Ray Easterling, among others  killed himself.
For years, Mr. Hernandez was held up as a particularly egregious example of N.F.L.
players running amok off the field.
Just 10 months after he signed a $40 million contract with the Patriots in 2013, with the promise of becoming a superstar, the body of a friend who had been shot multiple times was discovered.
Mr. Hernandez was convicted of the friends murder, and later accused in two other killings from 2012.
Just days after an acquittal in that case, he hanged himself with a bedsheet in his prison cell.
The researchers did not make a direct link between Mr. Hernandezs violence and his disease.
But C.T.E.
is often marked by problems with controlling aggression and impulses, and some degree of dementia, as well as mood swings, lapses in judgment and a disorganized manner.
Mr. Hernandezs estate filed a federal lawsuit on Thursday against the N.F.L.
and the Patriots seeking damages to compensate his 4-year-old daughter for the loss of her father.
The suit alleges that the league and the team knew that repeated head hits could lead to brain disease, yet did not do enough to protect Mr. Hernandez from those hits.
The lawyer, Jose Baez, said the family was also contemplating suing the N.C.A.A.
and the University of Florida, where Mr. Hernandez played before playing for the Patriots.
The N.F.L.
did not comment on the medical finding, and it declined to comment on the suit.
The Patriots declined to comment.
Soon after his arrest in 2013, the team distanced itself from him, buying back more than 1,200 Hernandez jerseys from fans.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The trauma to Mr. Hernandezs brain raises fresh questions about the dangers of playing tackle football.
This week, other researchers at Boston University published research that found that adults who began playing tackle football before they were 12 years old developed more cognitive and behavioral problems later in life than those players who started tackle football after they reached that age.
Photo

Mr. Hernandez played football as a teenager, and in 2013 was given the Inspiration to Youth Award by Pop Warner, the best-known youth football organization in the country.
The fact that Mr. Hernandez also led a troubled life off the field will complicate the N.F.L.s efforts to calm jitters about the sport because it will probably make some people wonder whether football had a role in his violence away from the game.
Mr. Baez said that in hindsight, Mr. Hernandezs family had witnessed him act in ways that were consistent with a person found to have C.T.E., but you dont know.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The slides of Mr. Hernandezs brain samples were unambiguous and graphic.
Dr. Ann McKee, chief of neuropathology at the VA Boston Healthcare System and director of the CTE Center at Boston University, examined his brain and said in a statement that Mr. Hernandez had early brain atrophy and large perforations in the septum pellucidum, a central membrane of the brain.
The slides also showed what she called classic features of C.T.E.
in the brain, including deposits of tau protein in the front lobes of the brain in nerve cells around small blood vessels.
The discovery of C.T.E.
adds another turn in Mr. Hernandezs meteoric rise and fall.
After a standout career at Florida, he was signed by the Patriots in 2010.
Just years before, he had been working menial jobs in Bristol, Conn., his hardscrabble hometown, where he drove a $300 used car he bought with money borrowed from friends.
At Florida, he helped the Gators win the national title in the 2008 season.
But he fell to the fourth round of the N.F.L.
draft because of off-field issues including involvement in a bar fight.
Less than a year after he signed the contract with the Patriots that might have provided a stable future, his friend was found murdered.
His conviction in the case became a stark example of N.F.L.
players who exhibit violence off the field.
Even his demise was filled with turmoil.
After Mr. Hernandez died, Mr. Baez called a news conference in front of the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner and accused the state of illegally withholding Mr. Hernandezs brain.
Mr. Hernandezs body had been discovered the day before, tied with a bedsheet to the window of his prison cell in Shirley, Mass.
His death was later ruled a suicide.
Instead, Lynch has seemed rejuvenated by the year off, and has paid immediate dividends for the Raiders, adding a hard-nosed edge to the offense that is not only showing up in attitude, but also in production.
At 31, he is hardly being asked to do everything himself  he has 30 of the teams 56 carries  but he has contributed to strong gains for Oakland in the percentage of rushing yards they pick up after contact, which makes teams work hard to stop him.
He may not have had a carry for more than 14 yards yet, but he has been knocked for a loss only twice, and the tough yards he has been able to fight for have opened things up for Derek Carr and the passing game.
Carr has taken advantage with a passer rating of 126.5 thus far, which is nearly 30 points better than his career high for a season.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This week the Raiders will be on the road against a Redskins (1-1) team that has done fairly well against the run, but has shown some vulnerability in the passing game.
If Lynch can hammer away at the Redskins front-seven, and let Carr exploit matchup advantages against the Washington secondary, the Raiders could have the teams first 3-0 start since 2002.
Pick: Raiders

Falcons at Lions, 1 p.m. on Fox

Line: Falcons by 3

Even though the Falcons are the defending N.F.C.
champions, this was not seen by many as a marquee matchup when the schedules came out.
But considering how well Atlanta (2-0) played last week against Green Bay, and how good Detroit (2-0) has looked in both games so far, this could be the most evenly matched game this week in terms of talent.
It is the only meeting of the week between unbeaten teams.
Matt Ryan of the Falcons and Matthew Stafford of the Lions will get the bulk of the publicity, but this game is likely to come down to which defense can limit the opposing offense, which makes the absence of Vic Beasley, Atlantas top pass-rusher, perhaps the most important injury note of the week.
Pick: Lions

Texans at Patriots, 1 p.m. on CBS

Line: Patriots by 13.5

Coach Bill Belichick has always seemed to relish picking on young quarterbacks, and with Houston (1-1) sending out Deshaun Watson for a start against the Patriots (1-1) in Foxborough, here are some numbers worth paying attention to: 5-15 (the record of rookie quarterbacks against Belichick-led Patriots teams); 0-8 (the record of those quarterbacks when playing in Foxborough); 0-5 (the record of the Texans at Foxborough regardless of who is playing quarterback).
New Englands wide receiver depth chart has only one fully healthy player, and Rob Gronkowski, who looked superhero-like last week, had yet to practice as of Wednesday, so a blowout score might be hard to manage.
Expecting Watson to pull off a victory is likely to be too much to ask, but the point spread is outlandish.
Pick: Texans

Second-Tier Games

Photo

Seahawks at Titans, 4:05 p.m. on Fox

Line: Titans by 2.5

The Seahawks (1-1) have been horrid offensively, and a lot of the blame has been placed on the teams offensive line.
Pro Football Focus backs that blame up by rating three of the teams five starters as poor, with Rees Odhiambo, the teams starting left tackle, picking up the rear with a player rating of 25.9 that ranks 72nd among tackles.
The interesting thing, though, is that according to Sportradar, Russell Wilson has had an average of 2.57 seconds in the pocket before he releases the ball or the pocket collapses, which is better than last seasons mark of 2.29 seconds, and is the fifth most time of any quarterback.
He has been hit an average of 6.5 times a game, which is tied for the 12th most, and has been sacked six times, which is tied for 9th.
Wilson undoubtedly could use better protection, but placing all of the blame on the guys up front may be misguided.
In the meantime, Seattles defense is mostly making up for the offensive inadequacy, and should be able to handle Tennessee (1-1), especially if DeMarco Murray is unable to play.
Pick: Seahawks

Giants at Eagles, 1 p.m. on Fox

Line: Eagles by 6

Coach Ben McAdoo of the Giants (0-2) did not hold back during a conference call this week.
Yeah, we cant keep doing the same thing over and over again, McAdoo said.
Thats insanity.
Its not working.
So we are going to look to make some changes this week, like we did last week.
Maybe it will be a little more drastic this week, to use your word.
It is hardly sunshine and puppy dogs in Philadelphia, as the Eagles (1-1) are struggling to find any sort of offensive balance, and have some key injuries on defense, but playing at home against a team in disarray can do a lot to make a team look like it has everything together.
Pick: Eagles

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Buccaneers at Vikings, 1 p.m. on Fox

Line: N/A

No one is sure what to make of this game since the status of Minnesotas starting quarterback, Sam Bradford, has yet to be determined.
The Vikings (1-1) looked terrific in Week 1, with Bradford earning N.F.C.
offensive player of the week honors for his performance against New Orleans, but a knee injury kept him out of Week 2 and the result was a 26-9 loss to Pittsburgh.
If Bradford, who practiced in a limited capacity on Wednesday, is able to play, Minnesota would seemingly be at an advantage, but without him the Vikings will struggle to score, even though his backup, Case Keenum, has a 2-0 record against Tampa Bay (1-0) over the last two seasons.
Pick: Vikings

Broncos at Bills, 1 p.m. on CBS

Line: Broncos by 3

Denver (2-0) barely escaped with a victory in Week 1, but then absolutely dominated one of the N.F.L.s best teams in Week 2, so figuring out exactly where they fit leaguewide can be difficult.
Trevor Siemian may not be able to reel off four passing touchdowns every week, but if the teams run defense can play as well as it did while humiliating Ezekiel Elliott, then the Broncos will be no fun for opponents.
Buffalo (1-1) will do its best to get something going with LeSean McCoy, but the Bills will eventually need to throw the ball, and its hard to believe that Tyrod Taylor can find openings with Aqib Talib and Chris Harris Jr. roaming the field.
Pick: Broncos

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Steelers at Bears, 1 p.m. on CBS

Line: Steelers by 7.5

Pittsburgh (2-0) has not exactly been setting the world on fire offensively, but it has done enough to win, and provided the team does not fall apart against the lowly Bears, they should have their first 3-0 start to the season since 2010.
It would be easy to be disappointed in the Steelers efforts considering the presence of several of the leagues biggest stars.
But Chicago (0-2) could put on a clinic in disappointment: Mike Glennon has proved his critics correct by not looking even close to being worth his huge salary, and Jordan Howard thus far is struggling to repeat his success from a year ago.
Pick: Steelers

Bengals at Packers, 4:25 p.m. on CBS

Line: Packers by 9

Even if the Packers (1-1) are still figuring things out defensively, a win at home over the struggling Bengals (0-2) seems like it would be easy enough.
The complicating factor is health.
Green Bay had its roster fall apart last week, with seven starters unable to play by the end of the loss to Atlanta.
If Mike Daniels, the teams versatile defensive lineman, is unable to go because of a hip injury, then this game is far more evenly matched.
It could come down to whether a patchwork offensive line can give Aaron Rodgers some time to work.
Pick: Packers

Chiefs at Chargers, 4:25 p.m. on CBS

Line: Chiefs by 3

The Chargers (0-2) have kept things close over the first two weeks of the season, but ended both games with a failed field goal attempt by Younghoe Koo and a loss.
If this game comes down to a last-second field goal attempt, it would be a shock, as the Chiefs (2-0), even when playing on the road, appear to have strong advantages on both sides of the ball.
Pick: Chiefs

Saints at Panthers, 1 p.m. on Fox

Line: Panthers by 6

New Orleans (0-2) has been absolutely cursed in September over the last few seasons, with a record of 1-11 in the month since 2014.
But this year they have certainly earned the losses, giving up 470 yards to Minnesota in Week 1 and 555 to New England in Week 2.
They might not be run quite as ragged this week by a Carolina (2-0) offense has been a bit rusty to start the season (and wont be helped by the absence of Greg Olsen).
But the Panthers do not need to run up the score given how well their defense has been playing.
Pick: Panthers

Bottom-Tier Games

Dolphins at Jets, 1 p.m. on CBS

Line: Dolphins by 6

The Jay Cutler experiment in Miami got off to a good start in a game in which he did not commit a turnover, got the entire offense involved, and helped lead the Dolphins (1-0) on a game-winning drive.
The potential for turnovers (plural) is always there, and having Lawrence Timmons suspended indefinitely for going missing from the team weakens the defense, but the Dolphins have advantages on both sides of the ball against the Jets (0-2).
Pick: Dolphins

Ravens at Jaguars, 9:30 a.m. on CBS

Line: Ravens by 4

The N.F.L.
has been playing games in London for 10 years now, and no team has played there more than the Jaguars.
Jacksonville (1-1) is still working its way through an agreement that has the team playing one home game a year there until at least 2020, and while their 2-2 record in London since 2013 may not seem impressive, it is certainly better than their 14-48 record outside of the London in the same time span.
Baltimore (2-0) has had a fairly smooth start to the season, and has the look of a playoff team.
The adjustment to international travel in the teams first visit abroad is the only thing putting this games result in doubt.
Pick: Ravens

Rams at 49ers, 8:25 p.m. (Thursday) on NFL Network

Line: Rams by 2.5

The N.F.C.
West is probably the leagues worst division in terms of overall talent, but at least when teams from the division are playing each other things are more evenly matched.
Both Los Angeles (1-1) and San Francisco (0-2) have shown year-to-year improvement, but with Eric Reid and Reuben Foster out, it would be too much to ask for the 49ers defense to do enough heavy lifting to win.
Pick: Rams

Browns at Colts, 1 p.m. on CBS

Line: Browns by 1

Dear Andrew Luck,

We are underdogs, at home, against a team known mostly for losing in embarrassing fashion.
We might be able to pull this one off, but it would be helpful if you could come back soon.
Sincerely, Colts fans

Pick: Colts

Mondays Matchup

Cowboys at Cardinals, 8:30 on ESPN

Line: Cowboys by 3

Dallas (1-1) is probably trying to pretend last week never happened.
Dak Prescott committed turnovers, Ezekiel Elliott could not find any room to run, and the Cowboys were simply humiliated by the Broncos.
The problems were rampant on both sides of the ball, but a chance to regroup against Arizona (1-1), a team that could barely beat the lowly Colts, could help shake the loss off and get Dallas back to a position of strength.
Pick: Cowboys
Its still too early to know if Hunt is the next Jamaal Charles, circa 2012, but we know enough to feel good about starting him in Week 3 of 2017.
Quarterback

Matt Ryan (ATL at Lions)  While he has only two touchdown passes through two games, he has been in complete control of the Falcons offense and hasnt really needed to do a whole lot in leading his team to two victories.
But in this matchup, he may need to air it out to keep up with Matthew Stafford and the Lions in what the Vegas oddsmakers are predicting to be the second highest scoring game of Week 3.
Im also not sold on the Lions secondary having improved vastly over the unit that allowed the fifth most fantasy points per game to quarterbacks in 2016.
Matthew Stafford (DET vs.
Falcons)  The other side of this potential high-scoring affair is Detroit and Stafford, who wasnt great against the Giants tough secondary, but was against the Cardinals in Week 1.
The Falcons, who gave up the second most F.P.P.G.
to the position in 2016 and helped Aaron Rodgers get back on track in Week 2, should do their part in making this game a true shootout.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Also consider: Cam Newton (CAR vs. Saints); Jay Cutler (MIA at Jets).
Running Back

Isaiah Crowell (CLE at Colts)  It has been a rough start for Crowell, who has 70 yards on 27 carries through the first two games of the season.
But it hasnt really been his fault, as the Browns have fallen behind early in both games, forcing them to shift away from the run.
Chances are that the Colts, who have a combined 21 points over the first two weeks, will be seeing a lot more of Crowell than the Steelers and the Ravens did.
Indianapoliss run defense is nothing to write home about, either, having allowed the sixth most F.P.P.G.
(20.6) to the position in 2016.
It hasnt improved that much in 2017, helping the Rams Todd Gurley to 15.6 fantasy points in Week 1.
C. J. Anderson (DEN at Bills)  No running back had a better fantasy performance than Anderson in Week 1 (118 rushing yards and two total touchdowns), and he did it in what was thought to be one of the tougher matchups for a fantasy back in Dallas.
Next up are the Bills, who yielded the third most F.P.P.G.
to running backs (21.7) last season.
While they have done better this season, they have not faced the type of tough challenge that the Broncos run game poses.
Also consider: Marshawn Lynch (OAK at Redskins).
Wide Receiver

Kelvin Benjamin (CAR vs. Saints)  After a disappointing Week 1, Benjamin last week looked more like the top receiver he showed he could be during the preseason, hauling in six of his eight targets for 77 yards.
Still, he has yet to return much fantasy value to those who drafted him this summer.
That should change against the Saints, who have been lit up by opposing pass offenses this season, including big fantasy performances by the Vikings Adam Thielen and Stefon Diggs in Week 1.
Just keep an eye on Benjamins injury status, as he has been slowed by knee soreness.
Martavis Bryant (PIT at Bears)  Antonio Brown is the obvious receiver to get excited about against the Bears porous secondary, but do not forget about Bryant, who had 91 yards and a touchdown last week against the Vikings.
This performance came after Bryant looked out of sorts in Week 1, his first regular-season N.F.L.
game in over a year.
Expect his chemistry with Ben Roethlisberger to continue growing as the season progresses, and expect him to get some help from a Bears secondary that allowed the sixth most fantasy points to wide receivers in 2016 (25.2 F.P.P.G.).
Also consider: Doug Baldwin (SEA at Titans).
Tight End

Jared Cook (OAK at Redskins)  He saw 11 of quarterback Derek Carrs 60 targets last week, though he converted only four of them into receptions for 25 yards.
Still, it shows that he is a major player in this passing offense, and a very solid streaming tight end option this week against the Redskins, who have allowed the most yards to opposing tight ends so far in 2017.
Defense/Special Teams

Ravens (vs. JAC at London); Patriots (vs. HOU).
Kicker

Giorgio Tavecchio (OAK at Redskins); Graham Gano (CAR vs. Saints).
I think the real Bernie Casey is coming through, he told Life.
There are all sorts of signs.
Just the other day, I was walking through a gallery and a man walked up and said, Are you Bernard Casey, the artist?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Casey balanced painting abstract oils and fantasy landscapes with acting once he stopped playing football.
He retired after the 1968 season, three years after Jim Brown, the N.F.L.s biggest star, abrupty ended his career with the Cleveland Browns and began to act.
One of Mr. Caseys first roles was in tick  tick  tick , a 1970 thriller with Mr. Brown.
He went on to play J. C. Caroline, a Chicago Bears teammate of the dying Brian Piccolo, in the televison movie Brians Song (1971); a C.I.A.
agent working with Sean Connery in the James Bond film Never Say Never Again (1983); and an aging action hero in Im Gonna Git You Sucka (1989), a parody of the blaxploitation genre that reunited him with Mr. Brown.
Mr. Casey also appeared in three of the Revenge of the Nerds movies, a series of comedies about collegiate misfits fighting a jock fraternity.
He played U. N. Jefferson, president of the Lambda Lambda Lambda fraternity.
Photo

In 1973, he portrayed the paralyzed former National Basketball Association player Maurice Stokes in the film Maurie.
Writing in The New York Times, the columnist Dave Anderson praised Mr. Casey for capturing the agonizing effort required by Mr. Stokes to lift a spoon and recalled a conversation he had with Mr. Casey late in his football career.
Just because Im a football player, he told Mr. Anderson, doesnt mean I cant be something else at the same time.
Most of us live on a small portion of our capacity.
I dont want to let the limitation of others limit me.
Bernard Terry Casey was born on June 8, 1939, in Wyco, W. Va. His father, Frank, was a coal miner.
His mother was the former Flossie Coleman.
In addition to playing on the Bowling Green football team, which was voted the small college champion in 1959, Mr. Casey competed in the high hurdles and finished sixth at the 1960 Olympic trials, short of making the team.
He earned a bachelors degree and a masters of fine arts from Bowling Green.
He was drafted by the 49ers, the New York Titans (who became the Jets) of the American Football League and the Montreal Alouettes of the Canadian Football League.
He chose the 49ers because, he said, San Francisco would advance his artistic dreams.
He was traded in 1967 to the Atlanta Falcons, which quickly sent him to the Rams.
Photo

Collectors of his paintings have included Sidney Poitier, Burt Reynolds and Maya Angelou, according to the Thelma Harris Art Gallery in Oakland, which had a major show of Mr. Caseys paintings in 2003.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Casey also published a few books of poetry, including Look at the People (1969) and Where Is the Revolution  and Other Poems (1973).
He is survived by his sister, Frankie Murray.
His marriage to Paula Campbell ended in divorce.
They had no children.
In 1997, Mr. Casey directed, wrote and produced the movie The Dinner, which featured three African-American men talking about slavery, white superiority, black crime and other racial subjects around a dinner table.
It was a departure from the action films and comedies he was known for.
But it was close to his heart and based on conversations with his friends.
None of the characters had names; they were Good Brother (Mr. Casey), Young Brother (Wren Brown) and Brother Man (Doug Johnson).
Most people dont know us, as African-Americans, Mr. Casey said at the time, even those of us who are greatly celebrated.
We are so expendable, we have no history in the context of the nation.
At that moment, he writes, My brain is thinking only lengthen and soften and disperse.
Mr. Brady attributes much of his unusually long N.F.L.
career and the relatively little playing time he has lost to injuries to this kind of gnomic self-talk and his muscular pliability.
But most of us are not pliable, he tells us, and our workouts are not helping.
Standard weight training and conditioning exercises, such as running and sprints, tighten and harden our muscles, he writes, opening us to injury.
Instead, we should do less weight training or conditioning and more of something else.
It involves targeted, deep-force muscle work, Mr. Brady writes.
Think of a deep, rigorous massage, but much more focused, and in my case using complex techniques based on an understanding of the biomechanics of what it takes for me to throw a football and function at peak levels as an athlete who accelerates, decelerates, runs, cuts, and more, as well as the daily acts of living that complement my off-field life.
Got it?
Me, neither.
Thankfully, Mr. Brady and Mr. Guerrero amplify and simplify their instructions as the book continues.
Mere massage does not produce pliability, they write.
You must contract muscles while also stretching and pummeling them, preferably with high-tech, vibrating foam rollers or vibrating spheres, Mr. Brady writes.
These are available at The TB12 Method online store for $150 and up.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The problem with this notion is that exercise science has never heard of muscle pliability.
Its balderdash, says Stuart Phillips, a professor at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario, and an expert in muscle physiology.
In scientific terms, he says, muscles that are soft tend to be muscles that are sick.
When folks do little or nothing, as, for instance, during bed rest, then their muscles get very soft, he says.
Mr. Brady and Mr. Guerrero have not conducted or published clinical trials of muscle pliability.
Neither has anyone else.
On the huge PubMed online database of published science, I found only one experiment that contains the words pliability and muscles, and it concerned the efficacy of different embalming techniques.
The books sections on diet and nutrition similarly lack supporting evidence, although not common sense.
Mr. Brady writes that, like him, we should avoid sugary foods and other processed carbohydrates.
The TB12 Method advocates for a plant-based, locally sourced, organic diet.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
It also, however, strays into the eccentric when it suggests that we eschew foods in the nightshade family, including tomatoes, strawberries, eggplants and potatoes, focus on foods high in alkalinity  such as artichokes, dandelion greens and escarole, and cut back on foods that supposedly raise acid levels in our blood, like beef, salmon, butter and cheese.
Mr. Brady does not explain or justify these dietary choices in this book.
For that, we need to consult the separate TB12 Nutrition Manual (available for $200 at tb12store.com).
Mainstream nutritional science, meanwhile, is fine with tomatoes and does not support alkaline diets.
Artichokes are healthful, but not because they blunt the acidity of our blood (which is what most proponents of alkaline diets claim for these foods).
We have kidneys for that.
Its worth noting that Mr. Guerrero, a self-taught exercise guru, has twice been investigated by the Federal Trade Commission for making unsubstantiated health claims about products he developed, including a nutritional supplement that supposedly protected athletes against concussions.
The book does not mention his past.
Still, the TB12 Method is not without value.
The books tone is humble and encouraging.
Mr. Brady prefaces his more outlandish health claims with such qualifiers as I believe or This is what works for me.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Most important, the book provides useful photographic and textual instructions for dozens of body-weight resistance training exercises, many done with resistance bands.
(The TB12 Method branded set is available for $160 at the companys website).
These exercises could credibly improve our flexibility  a muscular attribute that actually exists  and joint range of motion, says Malachy McHugh, the director of research at the Nicholas Institute of Sports Medicine and Athletic Trauma at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City.
Interventions that can maintain the functional range of motion of a series of muscle groups are critical to maintaining function as we get older, Dr. McHugh says.
Plus, The TB12 Method physical book weighs about three pounds, according to my bathroom scale, and that is a nice heft for light resistance training.
Mr. Cooksey, Mr. Pettway and Mr. TeBos did not respond to voice mail messages seeking comment on Tuesday.
Phone calls to Mr. Spielman and Mr. Kregel were not answered, and Mr. Kregel did not respond to an email seeking comment.
Mike Swider, who is the head coach and has worked on the Wheaton coaching staff for 33 years, also did not respond to an email seeking comment.
The victim, whose name prosecutors did not release, provided a statement about the episode through his lawyer, Terry A. Ekl.
In the statement, he accused the suspects of abducting him from a dorm room on March 19, 2016; wrapping duct tape around his arms, legs and chest; and transporting him in a vehicle to a baseball field.
On the way there, he said, they beat him; partly stripped him; threatened to rape him; tried to sodomize him with an unidentified object; and took his phone, wallet and one shoe.
They then dumped him half-naked in the field shortly before midnight, he said.
During the assault the assailants played Middle Eastern music on their car radio, put on fake Middle Eastern accents and threatened to rape him, the victim said.
His lawyer said the victim was not Muslim or of Middle Eastern descent and he believed that the assailants pretended to be Middle Eastern to scare the victim.
We have all seen situations where young men engage in foolish and immature conduct, Mr. Ekl said.
What was done to our client in this case is far beyond what is acceptable behavior or which can be dismissed as merely harmless hazing.
After the assault, the victim made his way back to campus and called his mother, who arranged for him to meet his grandparents at a nearby hospital.
Emergency room staff members there called the police and conducted a rape test, which concluded that he had not been penetrated, his statement said.
Photo

The victim said the assault caused a tremendous amount of pain and left him with labral tears in both shoulders that required surgery.
The day after the attack, his father moved his belongings out of his dorm and he now attends a college in Indiana, Mr. Ekl said.
This has had a devastating effect on my life, the victim said in a statement.
What was done to me should never occur in connection with participation in a football program or any other activity.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I am confident that the criminal prosecution will provide a fair and just punishment to the men who attacked me, the victim added.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Wheaton College is an evangelical Christian institution in Wheaton, Ill., about 25 miles west of Chicago.
The liberal arts college, which has about 2,850 students, describes its mission as providing excellence in Christian education.
Students are required to abide by a community covenant based on what the college views as Christian principles, including the call to pursue holiness in every aspect of our thought and behavior and the call to treat our own bodies, and those of others, with the honor due the very temple of the Holy Spirit.
College administrators were told about the hazing allegations by the coaching staff and members of the football team in March 2016, Ms. Taylor, the college spokeswoman, said in a statement on Tuesday.
She declined to say whether the players were taken off the team at that time or to explain why they were on the 2017 team roster.
Wheaton College aspires to provide an educational environment that is not only free of hazing, but practices our values as a Christian community, the statement from the college said.
As such, we are deeply troubled by the allegations brought by law enforcement against five members of our football team.
After an internal investigation, the players were given a range of corrective actions, the college said.
The school said it was unable to disclose what those correction actions may have been because of federal student privacy protections.
Wheaton College faced controversy last year after it put Larycia Hawkins, a tenured associate professor of political science, on administrative leave after she wrote on Facebook that Christians and Muslims are people of the book who worship the same God.
The college defended itself against criticism that its actions violated academic freedom or displayed anti-Muslim sentiment.
Ms. Hawkins agreed to part ways with Wheaton after the controversy.
The football team was also criticized in 2015 after its members wore Ku Klux Klan robes and carried Confederate flags as part of a team-building activity in a campus gym, according to The Chicago Tribune.
The team later apologized and said the robes and flags had been part of a skit parodying the 2003 Martin Lawrence and Will Smith film Bad Boys II.
The federal Consumer Finance Protection Bureau and the New York attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, have sued a New Jersey-based financial company, RD Legal Funding L.L.C., accusing it of deceiving retired N.F.L.
players and luring them into costly advances on settlement payouts with lies about the terms of the deals.
In July, Brody gave Seeger permission to compel the lenders and law firms to turn over information about how they sought to sign up players.
In all, Seeger pursued documents and information from 36 people or companies, though some firms did not cooperate.
Seeger and a partner, TerriAnne Benedetto, detailed a litany of questionable practices, including charging players thousands of dollars in fees for loans with 50 percent interest rates; lenders paying fees to brokers for referrals; and former players being paid fees to convince those who qualify for the settlement to sign agreements with lawyers and lenders, some of whom promised to introduce the ex-players to doctors who could help them get larger amounts in the settlement.
Benedetto provided several examples, including a player who received $10,000 from a lender but will have to pay back $17,310 from his settlement payout in one year.
Another received $312,000 from a lender but will have to pay back $568,000 once he receives his settlement.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Benedetto also mentioned Joe Pisarcik, a former quarterback for the Giants and the Philadelphia Eagles who once led the N.F.L.
Alumni Association and had access to a database of retired players.
Pisarcik received $200,000 from two law firms that wanted to use his name to help sign up former players.
She said Pisarcik was also offered bonuses of up to $75,000 for every 25 players with diagnoses covered under the settlement that he referred to the law firms.
Benedetto said that Pisarcik provided emails that showed that he tried to stop the lawyers from sending a deliberately misleading pitch letter with his name on it to former players.
The law firms represented 92 former players before they retained Pisarcik, then signed up an additional 241 clients after he became a consultant to the firms.
Benedetto said that some lenders had refused requests for documents.
To date, 1,200 claims from former players or their representatives have been filed, out of about 20,000 players who are eligible to file claims.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

More than $130 million in claims have been approved so far, mostly for players who had previously received a diagnosis for a condition covered by the settlement.
Some of that money has not been dispersed yet, though, because the settlement administrator must deduct money to repay Medicare and legal fees.
Some awards have also been audited because of potential red flags, including doctors thought to have written incorrect diagnoses for players.
Seeger told the judge he was worried, though, that the administration of the settlement could get bogged down if the lenders or lawyers ask the claims administrator to be paid before players receive their awards.
Seeger said that he may ask the judge to pursue criminal claims against lawyers and advisers who filed false claims or asked doctors to write improper diagnoses for players.
The brain is going through this incredible time of growth between the years of 10 and 12, and if you subject that developing brain to repetitive head impacts, it may cause problems later in life, Robert Stern, one of the authors of the study, said of the findings.
The study is consistent with earlier findings by Stern and others that looked specifically at N.F.L.
retirees.
That research found that retirees who started playing before 12 years old had diminished mental flexibility compared to those who began playing tackle football at 12 or older.
A growing number of scientists argue that because the human brain develops rapidly at young ages, especially between 10 and 12, children should not play tackle football until their teenage years.
Last year, doctors at Wake Forest School of Medicine used advanced magnetic resonance imaging technology to find that boys between the ages of 8 and 13 who played just one season of tackle football had diminished brain function in parts of their brains.
The N.F.L., which long denied that there was any link between the game and brain damage, has in recent years been promoting what it considers safer tackling techniques aimed at reducing head-to-head collisions.
More recently, the league has been promoting flag football as an even safer alternative, an implicit acknowledgment that parents are worried about the dangers of the sport and turning away from it.
Participation in tackle football by boys ages 6 to 12 has fallen by nearly 20 percent since 2009, though it rose 1.2 percent, to 1.23 million, in 2015, according to the Sports and Fitness Industry Association.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Schools across the country have shut their tackle football programs because of safety concerns and a shortage of players.
Large numbers of children have shifted to other sports like flag football, soccer, baseball and lacrosse.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The new Boston University study looked only at behavioral changes, based on the phone and online surveys.
There was no examination of physical changes in the brain.
(A separate study published by researchers at Boston University in July found that 110 out of 111 brains of deceased former N.F.L.
players had chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a degenerative brain disease.)
Still, the findings are yet more evidence that have contributed to an existential crisis for the game, from youth leagues to the N.F.L.
Pop Warner, the most established youth football organization in the country, has reduced the amount of contact in practice  where the majority of head hits occur  and changed game rules, including banning kickoffs, one of the most dangerous plays in the game.
Jon Butler, the executive director of Pop Warner, said in a statement that the sport has changed significantly for the better since the players in the Boston University study participated decades ago.
He said the organizations medical advisory committee will review the study and compare it against the number of recent studies that contradict these findings.
Pop Warner is facing a class-action lawsuit asserting that it knowingly put players in danger by ignoring the risks of head trauma.
Last year, the Ivy League decided to eliminate tackling at practices during the regular season.
The Canadian Football League made a similar announcement last week.
USA Football, the governing body for the sport, is introducing a 7-on-7 version of football that includes measures, like players starting in a two-point stance, designed to reduce the risk of head hits.
Other groups, like Practice Like the Pros, suggest that only flag football be played through the sixth grade and a limited version of tackle football in 7th and 8th grades.
The curiosity about head injuries and the correct age to play full contact is peaking, said Terry ONeil, the groups founder.
Tackling is the culprit.
Everybody associated with the game is worried about the participation numbers.
Photo

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.
When the Giants were embarrassingly inept in their season-opening loss to the Dallas Cowboys, the glaring lack of offense was blamed on an ankle injury that kept the All-Pro wide receiver Odell Beckham Jr. out of the game.
It turns out that even Beckhams vast, distinctive talents can be overestimated.
Beckham returned to the Giants lineup to face the Detroit Lions on Monday night, but he could not make up for another shabby performance by his teams offensive line.
He was unable to make the Giants feeble running game potent.
The Giants still struggled to mount sustained offensive drives.
And Beckham himself looked out of rhythm, which was understandable given his injury layoff.
He had little effect on the game, catching just four passes for 36 yards.
The result was a 24-10 Lions victory here at MetLife Stadium, a defeat that perilously set back the Giants season.
They began the year talked up as a Super Bowl contender, but with an 0-2 record and two difficult road games at the Philadelphia Eagles and Tampa Bay Buccaneers in the next two weeks, the Giants could soon be facing a daunting road to contend for a playoff spot.
Detroits victory, spurred by a swarming defense, improved their record to 2-0.
The Giants never led in the game and barely threatened to rally after the Lions took a commanding two-touchdown lead early in the fourth quarter with Jamal Agnews 88-yard punt return for a touchdown.
The Giants did have opportunities.
Two of their drives in the fourth quarter ended with fourth-down failures.
On the first fourth down, near midfield, the officials initially ruled that Giants running back Shane Vereen had picked up the first down with a three-yard reception.
It might seem chaotic, but it is not.
The proof is in the way the unbeaten Steelers are executing.
Through two weeks, Pittsburgh has allowed just 474 total yards, fifth among teams that have played two full games.
Sure, the Steelers have faced a rookie quarterback making his first N.F.L.
start (DeShone Kizer of Cleveland) and another who got the starting assignment minutes before kickoff (Minnesotas Case Keenum), but the team is confident its success is not a mirage.
Everybody can say the quarterbacks or whatever, but were not really worrying about that, Hargrave said.
Were just going out there, playing, trying to get to the quarterback and stop the run.
They did both on Sunday.
In a 26-9 victory over Minnesota, Pittsburgh chased Keenum around the pocket and limited Dalvin Cook, the Vikings rookie running back, to 64 yards on 12 carries, 25 of them coming on one run in the third quarter that set up Minnesotas only touchdown.
It is telling that the units lone major mistake  and not the other 55 offensive plays Minnesota ran to largely minimal effect  is what stuck with the Steelers.
Just 91 rushing yards?
defensive end Cam Heyward said, referring to the Vikings total on Sunday.
Thats still too much.
Weve got to hold ourselves to a higher standard.
And by that, Heyward meant the one that for so long stood among the gold standards in the N.F.L.
The Steelers finished in the top 10 in yards allowed every season from 2000 to 2012, including five times when they were No.
1 over all.
The precipitous slip began in 2013 as the team lost several important figures who had served as the core of three Super Bowl appearances from 2005 to 2010, including safety Troy Polamalu, defensive end Brett Keisel, cornerback Ike Taylor and the Hall of Fame defensive coordinator Dick LeBeau.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But the rebuilding process appears to be nearly complete.
When camp opened, Coach Mike Tomlin chose an interesting word to describe the defense, saying it had the talent to be a dominant group.
For a coach who rarely delves into the big picture, it was a startling pronouncement.
It may also end up being accurate.
T. J. Watt, a rookie outside linebacker and J. J. Watts brother, has been a revelation in two games, picking up two sacks and an interception in the opener and swatting down a pass against Minnesota before leaving with a groin injury.
Anthony Chickillo has done something considered nearly impossible for most of the last 12 years  he moved in front of James Harrison on the depth chart.
Harrison, 39, dressed but did not play against Minnesota, staying on the sideline when Chickillo filled in for the injured Watt.
Chickillo finished with four tackles on defense, another on special teams and a hit on the quarterback.
Harrisons day off is more a sign of Chickillos progress, one mirrored in other parts of the defense.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Defensive back Mike Hilton, who made the team off the practice squad, picked up eight tackles and even found a chance to drill Keenum on a well-designed blitz.
Joe Haden, signed at the end of training camp, had another quiet afternoon.
Burns knocked down a pass and recovered a fumble that effectively sealed the competitive portion of things.
All those splash plays start with word of mouth.
When you have communication from multiple guys, theres less room for error, Heyward said.
There have been few mental mistakes.
A trip to Chicago and another quarterback with problems  Mike Glennon  await.
The Steelers understand it is far too early to start thinking that they are back to their old selves.
Maybe thats because they are just simply not that old.
Defensive back William Gay and defensive end Tyson Alualu were the only starters who were 30 or older against Minnesota.
At the same time, Watt was the only rookie to get a significant number of snaps.
Pittsburghs defense is young but also experienced.
After spending the off-season hearing about how it could be the weak spot compared to the Killer B offense, the reality could prove to be considerably different.
Its one of our big goals this year to be one of the best defenses, Hargrave said.
With both the offense and defense clicking, he added, thats a great combination.
And still he was not happy.
His tight end, Rob Gronkowski, dropped a potential fourth touchdown pass in the end zone.
Brady threw his hands in the air.
Somewhere, perhaps Gisele Bndchen repeated the most incisive football wife comment of all time: My husband cannot throw the ball and catch the ball at the same time.
But back to the officials and how Brady rescued the league from another Patriots-versus-the-N.F.L.
contretemps.
Photo

The first incident came with the Patriots leading by 13-3 in the final minute of the first quarter.
Brady tossed a 13-yard touchdown pass to wide receiver Chris Hogan, who was remarkably uncovered as he collected Bradys throw near the goal line.
But a yellow flag had fluttered to the turf: offensive pass interference.
Pointing, shouting and running toward the conferring officials, Brady was not pleased.
Tony Romo, the former Dallas quarterback who was a color analyst with CBS for the game, offered that Brady was good at winning arguments, too.
A sideline microphone picked up Bradys plea: He was blocked on the line of scrimmage.
He said it twice.
An official tried to lead Brady away, but the quarterback did not appear interested in retreating.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After the game, a reporter told Brady that he had looked like he was being very persuasive.
Did I?
Brady said with a smile.
Hogan and his fellow receiver Brandin Cooks had crisscrossed on the play, with Cooks planting a sturdy shoulder block on P. J. Williams, the New Orleans defender covering Hogan, allowing Hogan to run away unaccompanied.
It was a classic pick play, one that often results in an offensive penalty.
Except, as referee Craig Wrolstad soon clarified  echoing a loud voice that must have been ringing in his head  there could be no penalty because the defender had been blocked within one yard of the line of scrimmage.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The Patriots led, 20-3.
Romo, with a faint snicker, then suggested that there was always a little gray area, when it came to the rules enforcement.
It was a comment that summed up the way the Patriots have tiptoed along the borders of the rule book for more than a decade.
At the same time, the play was another small illustration of the Patriots genius that drives the rest of the league mad.
It was about knowing the rules precisely and understanding how to use them to your advantage.
There is little doubt that the New England coaches, in their game preparation, had noticed New Orleans lining up in the tight formation along the line of scrimmage and knew how to exploit the situation.
So, obviously, did Brady, who reacted appropriately as soon as he saw the flag.
Two quarters later, with New England leading by 30-13, Brady appeared to make the kind of ill-advised play that had fans wondering last week if he had suddenly slipped into middle age.
A wobbly, aimless pass down the sideline was effortlessly intercepted by Saints safety Marcus Williams, who returned the football to the Patriots 2-yard line.
The Saints, it seemed, might rally yet.
Not so fast.
The officials had yet to consult with Brady, who was already dashing toward them.
As a group, they gave him a tired What now?
expression.
As Brady jogged, he held aloft the index finger of his left hand and a peace sign with his right hand.
It was not a very complex code.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Put them together, and you have a 12.
As in, one more than the legal number of players a team can have on the field for a play.
I didnt see a flag, and I said, What the heck?
Brady said after the game.
I saw the 12th guy.
But the officials said they were going to review it.
Albeit much later than Brady had, the officials counted 12 Saints on the field.
The interception was nullified.
The Patriots actually gained 5 yards with the penalty.
I wish they had thrown the flag right away and took away the drama, Brady said.
Three plays later, Brady threw another interception.
This time the officials avoided a rebuke by Brady, immediately tossing a flag to the ground for defensive holding.
For Brady, it all added up to a redemptive victory.
His 447 yards were the most by a 40-year-old player in league history, and the third-highest total of Bradys career.
It was the 52nd time he had thrown three or more touchdowns in a game without an interception, which was an N.F.L.
record.
Peyton Manning did it 51 times.
Brady acknowledged after the game that he was aware some fans had been questioning after last weeks loss whether he had somehow precipitously declined since winning the Super Bowl seven months ago.
One stat provided a stark answer: The victory over the Saints improved Bradys record in games following a Patriots defeat to 43-10.
Im expected to lead us into good plays and to get us playing better when we need to play better, he said.
Whatever that takes.
All part of the job(s).
The veteran N.F.L.
reporter Andrea Kremer said she was hardly surprised by the backlash against Mowinss play-by-play on the sports biggest stage.
I have no doubt that hating the sound of her voice is code for I hate that there was a woman announcing football, Kremer told me.
The whining was neither surprising nor accurate, Kremer said: One of the many positives about Beth doing the game, in addition to her being a top-notch, seasoned broadcaster, is that she has a great voice that cuts through all the ambient noise in the stadium.
Whether youre in the booth or on the field, you need a resonant voice that can be audible.
The voice is like an instrument, and Beth is blessed with some great pipes.
Much of the social-media discussion of Mowinss voice was preceded by the always dubious claim that the criticism had nothing to do with the fact that Mowins was a woman.
Setting aside that starting a tweet with Im not sexist, but usually ensures that what follows will be sexist, its hard to imagine how to separate Mowins the woman from Mowins the voice.
Beth Mowins sounds like a woman.
The negative online reaction to Mowinss play-by-play calling football games is steeped in sexism, said Rebecca Martinez, who teaches womens and gender studies at the University of Missouri.
The comments, mostly from men, have focused on her voice being annoying to the point of not wanting to listen to her.
Theyll focus on the naturally higher pitch of womens voices and shrillness, all the while claiming their critiques of higher pitch have nothing to do with sexism.
Women who have high visibility, particularly in settings that are traditionally male, will experience backlash.
Photo

The response to female broadcasters voices is not new.
Sports are commonly perceived to be an arena for men  by men, of men  and anything that disrupts that makes some men uneasy.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Sports Newsletter Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
As women in high-profile sports broadcasting jobs, we get criticized from head, and hair, to toe, Kremer said.
We are in a subjective business, and the haters are always going to find something they dont like about us because they dont want us there.
Andrew Dzurisin, an assistant professor of sociology at Middlesex County College, said the criticism stems from deep-rooted cultural beliefs.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Friday Night Lights isnt just a movie or book; its real, he said.
In many parts of the country, football is an ingrained part of masculinity, culturally.
Of the major sports, football is seen as the one that fits the traditional definition of masculinity.
Its rough, its violent, its tribal, its a mans game.
To hear a woman do the play-by-play of the sport that most fits the traditional definition of masculinity is beyond comprehension to some men.
The primal masculinity of football makes a woman calling a game antithetical to their core ideas about gender.
Barriers persist in other sports, too.
The ESPN baseball analyst Jessica Mendoza has also been the target of social-media scorn, despite high praise from many of her colleagues and from former players.
Photo

Mendoza to me is an example of new baseball intersecting with the gender and even ethnicity, Dzurisin said.
Most of her commentary revolves around analytics.
Baseball audiences also skew older, so male viewership is more likely to embrace traditional gender norms that do not include female baseball analysts.
The fact that she is Hispanic also irks men, as they see a sport of the white man until Jackie Robinson now becoming increasingly Hispanic.
Some men insist they turn to sports to get a break from women.
This is something I hear more than you would probably believe.
Ive been told my voice is too high, too low, too young-sounding, too Chicago-sounding, too harsh, too soft, and just generally obnoxious.
The only time Ive ever been complimented on my voice was when I had bronchitis and a bunch of men called in to tell me my voice was sexy.
But bronchitis is hard to maintain on any kind of regular basis just to please the lonely faction of my male listeners.
And anyway, antibiotics forced me to go back to sounding like myself.
Sports fans have been subjected to a large number of male broadcasters with objectively terrible voices, from Howard Cosells nasal staccato to Phil Simmss Kentucky twang.
Chris Russos New York accent was so thick, his Florida station supposedly sent him to speech therapy.
The White Sox Hawk Harrelson is given to long stretches of silence in the booth when hes upset.
Do we even need to list the former male athletes with marbles in their mouths and very little to say who somehow retain seats in the broadcast booth?
So its 2017, and some Americans are unwilling to tolerate a sports broadcaster sounding like a woman.
Can we overcome it?
I am confident we can.
Photo

OAKLAND, Calif.  Marshawn Lynchs Oakland homecoming on Sunday turned into a dance party.
Lynch celebrated his first home game for his hometown team by running for a first-half touchdown, and then delighted the fans with a lengthy sideline dance during the fourth quarter of the Raiders 45-20 victory over the Jets.
Thats Marshawn being Marshawn, playing for his hometown team, Donald Penn, the Raiders left tackle, said.
If you grow up as a kid and grow up rooting for a team and then you get to play for them, wouldnt that be a dream?
Im just happy for him.
Hes living a childhood dream.
Lynch ran for 45 yards on 12 carries and scored on a 2-yard run late in the second quarter.
After the game, he said he planned to give the touchdown ball to his mother.
But what generated perhaps even bigger cheers was his sideline dance in the fourth quarter that was shown on the stadiums video board, prompting cheers of Beast Mode!
Beast Mode!
It got me fired up, said Jack Del Rio, the Raiders coach.
You can see the pure passion that he has.
These are his people.
These are my people.
He played well.
I know he was really happy to have his first game go like that.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Moments like these were why Lynch chose to come out of retirement this past off-season.
He made his decision after the Raiders announced their plans to move to Las Vegas in 2020.
Lynch said he wanted to give something back to his hometown fans and, on Sunday, he delivered in a big way.
Photo

OAKLAND, Calif.  Bruce Maxwell, a rookie catcher for the Oakland Athletics, on Saturday became the first Major League Baseball player to kneel during the national anthem.
Maxwell, 26, dropped to a knee just outside Oaklands dugout before a game against the Texas Rangers, adopting a protest started by the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick in response to police treatment of black Americans.
Maxwells teammates stood in a line next to him, and Mark Canha put his right hand on Maxwells shoulder.
The Athletics released a statement on Twitter shortly after the anthem, saying they respect and support all of our players constitutional rights and freedom of expression and pride ourselves on being inclusive.
Major League Baseball also issued a statement, saying it has a longstanding tradition of honoring our nation prior to the start of our games but that we also respect that each of our players is an individual with his own background, perspectives and opinions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Maxwells gesture came after President Trump denounced anthem protests by N.F.L.
players and rescinded a White House invitation to the N.B.A.s Stephen Curry in a two-day rant that targeted top professional athletes.
Photo

For the first time since April 30, the Mets ace, Noah Syndergaard, took the mound in a major league game on Saturday.
As planned, he pitched just the first inning before giving way to Matt Harvey in a 4-3 loss to the Washington Nationals in 10 innings.
Syndergaard, who has been recovering from a partially torn right latissimus muscle, allowed a hit but threw only five pitches in the scoreless inning.
It was great to see him out there, Manager Terry Collins said.
With a week left in the season, Syndergaard was running out of time to rebuild enough arm strength to start a game for the Mets.
He previously made two minor league rehabilitation starts and threw one simulated game.
His fastball registered 99 miles per hour on the radar gun, normal for Syndergaard, a hard-throwing right-hander.
He gave up a single to Jayson Werth but erased Werth from the bases by getting Daniel Murphy to hit into a double play.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

One inning is all I needed to get my feet wet and go into the off-season healthy, said Syndergaard, who is expected to make one more start this season.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
He added, I felt like I needed it, because Ive put in so much work over the past five months.
Joe Girardi, the Yankees manager, said that the team would pursue the division title, and that the secondary goal would be retaining home-field advantage for the wild-card game.
Photo

I think its important that we keep our foot on the gas and see where we lie, Girardi said.
You dont want guys to lose that edge that theyve had for so long.
The Yankees were committed this season to a balancing act of rebuilding the team while also trying to win now, and they made it work.
Last year they traded away veteran stars like Andrew Miller and Aroldis Chapman to stock the minor league system with prized prospects, hoping to build toward a prosperous future with a core of talented young players already in place, including Greg Bird, Aaron Judge, Gary Sanchez and Luis Severino.
But General Manager Brian Cashman also made moves to fortify the team for this years push.
That included bringing back Chapman as a free agent, signing Matt Holliday and later trading for players like Sonny Gray, Todd Frazier, Tommy Kahnle and David Robertson without surrendering the clubs best young players.
Saturdays victory represented the fruit of those decisions.
Gray allowed one run and four hits in six innings, and Bird hit a three-run home run, his third homer in the last seven games.
Chad Green, Robertson and Chapman combined for three hitless innings in relief, and Frazier cemented the win with a solo home run in the eighth.
All we needed was an invitation, Frazier said, referring to the postseason party.
We got that invitation today.
Girardi credited the postseason berth to virtually everyone in the organization, from the owners and Cashman down to the trainers.
When spring training began in February, the Yankees were not considered a top contender.
Photo

Going into spring training, I wasnt sure, Girardi said.
But coming out of spring training, I felt really good about our team.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Pitcher C. C. Sabathia, another long-serving Yankee, was also optimistic about the teams chances, based on the raw talent he saw from the beginning and on the moves Cashman made to reinforce the roster.
Obviously, the front office knew what they were doing, Sabathia said.
The last time the Yankees were in the postseason was 2015, but Sabathia did not attend the wild-card loss to the Houston Astros because he had admitted himself to a rehabilitation center to deal with alcoholism.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
On Saturday he stood mostly to the side of the clubhouse and watched the revelry with a huge smile on his face.
It feels good, he said, just to be able to get back in the playoffs, obviously, and be able to help the team.
It feels good.
The party raged on as players and coaches soaked in the moment.
Were getting after it a little bit right now, Frazier said.
Well deserved.
Well be back to business again tomorrow.
Weve still got a division to try and win, too.
This is a good team, and we all know what to do.
INSIDE PITCH

Luis Severino was struck in the upper back with a baseball during batting practice, but he said he was O.K.
An intruder got past stadium security on Friday and into the Yankees clubhouse, but he was caught and arrested after trying to steal a helmet and some baseballs.
With one out in the third inning, Frazier was on second base after a double.
Jacoby Ellsbury lined a ball into right field, and Bautista made one of three fine plays in the game  a leaping grab of the ball over his head.
As Frazier scrambled back to the bag, Bautista threw the ball back in to Goins, the second baseman.
Photo

Goins pretended to casually throw back to Estrada, but actually placed the ball in his glove as Frazier stood on the base, looking toward the outfield.
When Frazier stepped of the base by just inches, Goins tagged him for the final out.
Frazier blamed his lack of concentration for the play.
I thought the ball was thrown in, and it was one of those things, he said.
Nothing you can do about it afterward.
Castro also took the blame for his mistake  failing to catch Fraziers throw in the first inning with a runner coming into second base.
Castro said he had rushed to turn the double play, and missed the ball.
The runner, Teoscar Hernandez, ended up at third and scored on a groundout by Bautista.
Perhaps both of those mistakes could have been overcome if Tanaka had pitched better.
But he gave up a bases-empty homer to Hernandez in the third and a two-run shot by the former Yankee Russell Martin in the fourth, and the Blue Jays led, 4-1.
Then in the sixth, Tanaka walked Bautista as the leadoff batter, just as he had done before Martins homer in the fourth.
Kevin Pillar singled, but Tanaka struck out Martin and Miguel Montero, hinting that he still had the stuff to get safely out of the inning.
Photo

But he walked pinch-hitter Kendrys Morales (he said he was not pitching around him to face Goins) to load the bases.
Goins was 0 for 20 against Tanaka coming into the game and had made two outs already, which is why Girardi left Tanaka in to face him.
But this time was different.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Goins rocketed a high slider over Judges head and into the seats beyond right field for his eighth homer of the season.
The only other grand slam of his career came in May.
Tanaka has had a difficult season, and the Yankees have been unable to determine the reason.
Tanaka said that it was a mechanical problem and that he would have to analyze videotape of Fridays outing to determine what flaw had doomed him.
Girardi attributed Tanakas troubles to inconsistency throughout the season with his split-fingered fastball and his slider.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Tanaka is 12-12, and his E.R.A.
is 4.94.
He has surrendered seven earned runs in two of his last three starts, and should the Yankees make it to the divisional round of the playoffs, his spot in the rotation could be in doubt.
You look at everything, Girardi said.
But I dont want to get too far ahead of ourselves.
We still havent clinched anything.
We need to win games, and we need to play well.
And tonight we didnt.
The Yankees will have more shots to clinch a playoff berth, but their chances to win the American League East grew smaller as the Red Sox beat the Cincinnati Reds, 5-4, increasing their lead over the Yankees to four games with nine to play.
We are still looking to win the division, Frazier said.
We know we have a really good shot at making the playoffs, of course, but we still have an opportunity to win the division, so I think our mind-set is on that.
Choosing a new manager  perhaps Ausmus, Sandy Alomar Jr., or a former Met like Alex Cora, Joe McEwing or Robin Ventura  is likely to be Aldersons first priority this winter.
An easier decision should be replacing the medical and training staff.
No one can say precisely how many of the Mets injuries could have been anticipated, prevented or minimized.
But the sheer volume of debilitating physical problems to major players demands some kind of accountability.
These Mets might have been flawed in their construction.
But with the injuries, they never had a chance to find out.
Remove Noah Syndergaard, Matt Harvey, Steven Matz, Zack Wheeler, Jeurys Familia, Yoenis Cespedes, Michael Conforto and David Wright, and of course the team flatlined.
Solving the health riddle is Aldersons most important task.
He seems open to ideas.
The injuries are not just an objective fact; there are underlying causes and issues that weve wanted to and have examined in connection with those injuries, Alderson said.
Its not going to happen just at the end of the season.
Its been an ongoing review.
As for his own performance, Alderson said, the players he sought at the trading deadline should show where he went wrong earlier.
In dealing several veterans, Alderson sought one asset most: relievers.
This seasons bullpen was too thin from the start.
I think thats sort of a tacit recognition that, look, we need to get better there, he said.
Alderson was right last winter not to match the Atlanta Braves one-year, $12.5 million offer to Bartolo Colon, who had steadied the Mets rotation for three memorable seasons.
Colon looks finished now.
His 6.63 earned run average, with the Braves and the Minnesota Twins, is the worst in the majors for pitchers with at least 20 starts.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But the Mets were not as deep in starters as they thought.
By Memorial Day, they had given desperate promotions to Tommy Milone, Adam Wilk and Tyler Pill, who have combined to go 0-7.
Clearly, they need more than just bullpen depth.
We also are going to have to look at the rotation and see whether theres some stabilizing addition we can make that will help us bridge some of the uncertainty that comes from pitchers whove been hurt and are coming back, Alderson said.
Well be in a similar situation next year as we were this year, and hoping for better results  but perhaps planning for the possibility that they dont all come back.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

With few high-impact starters besides Jake Arrieta and Yu Darvish on the free-agent market, the Mets might have to overpay for a reliable mid-rotation arm like Andrew Cashner, Alex Cobb, Lance Lynn or Jason Vargas.
Whomever they pursue, Alderson acknowledged that with so much uncertainty in the rotation, the Mets would have to pay closer attention to defense.
Shortstop Amed Rosario has been a revelation in the field, but can the rest of the lineup bash enough to support Juan Lagares, who has a weak bat but a sterling glove in center field?
When your pitchers arent striking everybody out, as weve had the benefit of in the past, the defense becomes a little more important, Alderson said, adding that there has been a recognition after this year that if were going to have pitching that puts the ball in play a little more, then the defense is going to have to be more of a priority.
If only the Mets had forgiven Daniel Murphy his defensive shortcomings, instead of letting him leave after his slugging led them to the 2015 World Series.
Murphy came back to town this weekend hitting .316 with 22 homers in the second season of a bargain three-year, $37.5 million contract with Washington.
Murphy was out of the lineup Friday, easing into another playoff run.
His Mets replacement, Neil Walker, was traded last month to Milwaukee.
Maybe Murphy will start on Saturday to face his old teammates, Syndergaard and Harvey, who will pitch for the Mets.
Syndergaard has not pitched since April 30 because of a torn right latissimus muscle, and he will work the first inning only.
Harvey, who has been shelled in his return from shoulder trouble, will follow.
Not long ago, they were swaggering superheroes, Thor and the Dark Knight.
Their return will be a bittersweet episode of a failed series.
In the back of your mind, youre saying, If we could have had these guys   Collins said.
But you didnt.
Thats the reality of it all.
You try not to get caught up in what could have been, because it didnt.
Photo

TORONTO  Yankees third baseman Todd Frazier, who hit the foul ball that struck a young girl in the face at Yankee Stadium on Wednesday afternoon, said he spoke to the girls father on Thursday and had been told that she was recovering well in a hospital.
He said shes doing good, Frazier said before the Yankees played the Toronto Blue Jays on Friday night.
He said the family is really happy that shes O.K.
I think they are going to do a couple more tests over the next few days, and hopefully she can get out of there.
Frazier said the girls father told him not to blame himself, and Frazier said he felt a measure of relief after the conversation.
He added that he planned to check in with the family every day, at least until the girl is discharged from the hospital.
He also said he hoped to meet her soon.
Since the incident, three major league teams have announced that they will extend the protective netting at their parks to the full lengths of the dugouts.
Another team, the Colorado Rockies, said it had already been considering the move.
Ten other teams have already extended their netting.
The Yankees, while expressing concern for the girl in public statements, have not specifically addressed whether they will extend their netting.
Frazier said it was time for all teams to do so immediately, even before the regular season ends on Oct. 1.
I think 2018 is already too late, he said.
They should be up sooner than that.
Eppler propped up his offense on Aug. 31  the last day to add players who could be eligible for the postseason  by trading for outfielder Justin Upton and second baseman Brandon Phillips, adding firepower to a lineup led by the peerless Mike Trout.
But the rotation has stayed in constant flux.
Only one pitcher has thrown 150 innings  Ricky Nolasco, whose earned run average is 5.06.
Elbow trouble cost Garrett Richards five months and ended the seasons of J. C. Ramirez and Alex Meyer.
Another starter, Andrew Heaney, is out with a sore shoulder, and the Angels plan to replace him with a procession of relievers, as they did in a seven-man, tag-team victory on Sept. 15.
Given all that, it is no surprise that the Angels have set a club record for victories by relievers.
Their bullpen has been fairly stable, with five pitchers working at least 55 games.
The staff has been helped greatly by impeccable team defense, which FanGraphs ranked as the second best in the majors, behind only the Boston Red Sox.
We laid the blueprint out in the wintertime, as far as understanding theres a run-producing aspect and a run-prevention aspect, Eppler said.
Lets try to grow the distance between those two variables as great as we can.
The Angels two best defenders, according to FanGraphs, have been shortstop Andrelton Simmons and catcher Martin Maldonado.
Eppler acquired Simmons from Atlanta before last season, and Maldonado from Milwaukee last winter.
Those moves and others might help the Angels squeeze into the playoffs, if they make the most of their remaining games against Houston, Seattle and the Chicago White Sox.
If they make it, the Angels could meet a fitting opponent in the American League wild-card game on Oct. 3  the Yankees.
We benefited from Billys baseball I.Q.
for a long time, like the Angels are now, Cashman said last week.
Im not surprised by any success they have, because they hired the right man, and they will benefit for a long time from that decision.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

An Assist From a Button

Sure, he lacked the balletic grace of Byron Buxton, Kevin Pillar or Andrelton Simmons.
But Nick Pivetta, a pitcher for the Philadelphia Phillies, might have made the catch of the year during his teams recent four-game series victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers.
With two outs in the sixth inning on Monday, the Dodgers Austin Barnes smoked a liner back up the middle at 106 miles per hour, too fast for Pivetta to get a glove on it.
Instead, his button-down jersey made the play for him.
Had Pivetta been pitching for the Phillies from 1973 to 1986, when the team wore zipper-front jerseys, this would have been impossible.
But Barness hit nestled inside Pivettas shirt, entering between the buttons, and Pivetta stayed upright.
He reached inside his jersey, found the ball and flipped it behind him as he trotted off the field to end the inning.
Actually, its funny, Pivetta told reporters after the game.
My last game in junior college, on one of the outs, I had a ball similar to that.
I caught it in my stomach.
That one hit my forearm, then my stomach.
So thats the second time it happened to me.
I didnt even see the ball.
Technically, Pivetta needed to throw the ball to first to complete the out.
According to Rule 5.09(a): A catch is the act of a fielder in getting secure possession in his hand or glove of a ball in flight and firmly holding it; providing he does not use his cap, protector, pocket or any other part of his uniform in getting possession.
But the umpires ruled it a catch, the Dodgers did not complain  and it was clearly Pivettas night, anyway.
He has a 6.57 earned run average for the season, but on Monday he beat the three-time Cy Young Award winner Clayton Kershaw to earn his sixth victory.
Stamina in the Bullpen

Few playoff teams have a reliever quite like Chris Devenski of the Houston Astros.
Devenski has thrown 78 and one-third innings in relief this season, more than any other pitcher for a division-leading team.
He could be the Astros answer to Clevelands Andrew Miller as a critical multiple-inning weapon for the playoffs.
Photo

Devenski worked more than one inning 17 times before pitching in the All-Star Game, his first, and he has done so far less often since then, which should keep him rested for October.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Astros acquired Devenski to little fanfare in a 2012 trade with the Chicago White Sox for Brett Myers, a veteran who was pitching his last full season in the majors.
Devenski, who had been drafted in the 25th round the year before, was in low Class A with a 4.23 E.R.A.
I had a lot of failure in the minor leagues, and I always learned something from it, he said this summer.
It helps me become better.
The pitcher I am now, he goes out there and he dominates.
Theres going to be rough times, but thats part of the game.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Devenski dominates with a changeup he learned in high school but took many years to perfect.
He recognized the pitch as his ticket to the majors shortly after the trade, when he used it for about 60 percent of his pitches in a 16-strikeout, Class A no-hitter.
Even as his E.R.A.
swelled to 6.60 the next year, Devenski kept faith in the changeup.
I had to just continue to throw it and throw it and throw it, Devenski said.
Its like if youre digging for coal and youve got diamonds on the other side of the coal and you continue to dig and continue to dig.
What if you give up, and you were two inches away from the diamonds?
Its kind of like I did the same thing with my changeup.
I was going to continue to throw this and throw this and throw this until something good came out of it.
I always knew I could develop it into something nasty.
Devenski throws his changeup around 83 miles an hour, and his fastball around 94.
He throws both pitches about 40 percent of the time, and also uses a slider.
It is a rare three-pitch mix for a reliever, but useful for one who may face hitters more than once per game.
Devenski spoke with Miller about their roles at the All-Star Game, and the two could meet again in the playoffs.
Not many teams, if any teams, have what he can do for them right now, his flexibility, his length, Miller said in July.
I dont think anybodys looking forward to facing the Astros for a lot of reasons, but hes certainly part of it.
Near-Miss No-Hitters

The Detroit Tigers Matthew Boyd lost a no-hitter with two outs in the ninth inning last Sunday when Tim Anderson of the Chicago White Sox lined a two-out double to right.
That was the sixth time this season that a no-hitter had been broken up in the ninth inning or later, the most in the majors since 1989.
Photo

That season, Kirk McCaskill, John Farrell, Tom Browning, Dave Stieb and Nolan Ryan  twice!
lost no-hitters in the ninth.
Ryan had thrown five of his record seven no-hitters by then, Browning had tossed a perfect game the year before and Stieb would get his no-hitter the next season.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This years group has never pitched a no-hitter.
After the Miami Marlins lost a combined no-hitter by Wei-Yin Chen, Brad Ziegler and Kyle Barraclough in April, Atlantas Mike Foltynewicz, Colorados Kyle Freeland, Washingtons Gio Gonzalez, the Los Angeles Dodgers Rich Hill (in the 10th inning) and Boyd joined the list.
Only one pitcher has finished a no-hitter this season: Miamis Edinson Volquez against Arizona on June 3.
Alas, the season did not end happily for Volquez, who two months later underwent Tommy John surgery for the second time in his career.
Speaking of Volquez, 34, how many pitchers have experienced as many extremes as he has?
Besides his no-hitter and surgeries, Volquez has been traded for Josh Hamilton (in 2007); made an All-Star team (2008); served a suspension for performance-enhancing drugs (2010); lost his playoff debut, when Philadelphias Roy Halladay threw a no-hitter against him (2010); started on opening day for three teams (San Diego in 2012 and 2013, Kansas City in 2016, Miami in 2017); started Game 1 of the World Series the day his father died, then started the clincher five days later (in 2015); and in various seasons led his league in earned runs, walks, hit batters and wild pitches.
Advertisement

Baseball Diamonds Arent Forever: Bygone Ballparks of New York Much of the games history can be traced through these five ballparks, which have all been torn down.
When shortstop Don Zimmers throw settled into first baseman Gil Hodgess glove to seal a 2-0 victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates 60 years ago this month, the Dodgers had played their final game in Brooklyn.
With the Dodgers gone from Brooklyn, so was professional baseball at their longtime ballpark, Ebbets Field.
Before long, Ebbets Field was gone, too, one in a series of ballparks that nurtured major league baseball in New York City before succumbing to the wrecking ball.
Five New York ballparks built in baseballs modern era, which began early in the 20th century  Hilltop Park (1903-12), the Polo Grounds (1911-63), Ebbets Field (1913-57), Yankee Stadium (1923-2008) and Shea Stadium (1964-2008)  seeded much of the games history before being torn down.
You can trace that history, and even more than baseball, below.
Image The Brooklyn Dodgers in their heyday at Ebbets Field.
The Dodgers won six National League pennants in their final 11 seasons in the ballpark.
Credit Ernie Sisto/The New York Times

Ebbets Field

First game: April 9, 1913.
Philadelphia Phillies 1, Dodgers 0.
Brooklyn Starts Season a Loser.
Benny Meyer Upsets Game by His Errors  Cold Chills 10,000 Fans.
Advertisement

Last game: Sept. 24, 1957.
Dodgers 2, Pittsburgh Pirates 0.
Dodgers Defeat Pirates in Ebbets Field Finale.
MDevitt Victor on 5-Hitter, 2-0.
Other games: An N.F.L.
team played at Ebbets Field from 1930 to 1944, as the Dodgers (1930-43) and the Tigers (44).
The teams had three winning records in 15 seasons.
The Brooklyn Eagles of the Negro National League played one season there, 1935.
Their owners, Abe and Effa Manley, later owned the star-studded Newark Eagles.
Distinguishing architectural feature: 80-foot-high Italian marble rotunda.
Short porch in right field: 297 feet, although with a high wall and, eventually, a scoreboard and a net.
Left-handed-hitting beneficiary: Duke Snider, 175 home runs at Ebbets Field.
Image Fans waiting at Ebbets Field to buy World Series tickets in 1955, Brooklyns only championship season.
Two years later, the Dodgers left; in 1960, the ballpark was razed.
Credit Neal Boenzi/The New York Times

Casey Stengel connection: Dodgers outfielder, playing at Ebbets Field from its opening season, 1913, through 1917.
The teams were mostly terrible, except for a pennant in 1916.
Dodgers manager, 1934-36.
Those teams were also terrible, compiling a record of 208-251.
Babe Ruth connection: Played two games at Ebbets Field for the Boston Braves in his final season, 1935; went hitless in eight plate appearances.
Coach for the 1938 Dodgers .
Subway World Series: Brooklyn faced the Yankees in 1941, 1947, 1949, 1952, 1953, 1955 and 1956.
Wait till next year except in 1955.
Music: The Sym-Phony Band, a group of fans who played in the stands during games.
Sample number: Three Blind Mice for the umpires.
Whats there now: Apartments.
Fun fact: In 1931 a Gaelic football match was played at night under portable lights, seven years before the first night game there.
Image The distinctively shaped Polo Grounds  like a horseshoe or a bathtub?
was home to three major league baseball teams (Giants, Yankees, Mets) and two professional football teams (Giants, Titans/Jets).
Credit Associated Press

Polo Grounds

First game: June 28, 1911.
Giants 3, Boston Beaneaters 0.
Giants Reopen Polo Grounds and Win : The Times reported that more than 6,000 fans in the half-finished ballpark saw Boston perform its customary daily act of being defeated.
Last game: Sept. 18, 1963: Phillies 5, Mets 1.
Era of Mets Ends at Polo Grounds : The Giants had a last game in 1957 before moving to San Francisco.
Then the Mets had a goodbye ceremony for the Polo Ground s in 1962.
But Shea Stadium was not ready for the 1963 season, so they had one more Polo Grounds farewell.
Advertisement

Other games: The Yankees played at the Polo Grounds from 1913 to 1922.
The N.F.L.
Giants played there from 1925 to 1955.
The Titans/Jets of the A.F.L.
played there from 1960 to 1963.
College football, especially Army.
The New York Cubans of the Negro leagues played frequently at the Polo Grounds from 1935 to 1950.
Jack Dempsey was knocked out of the ring there (but climbed back in and knocked out Luis Firpo in the next round).
In the waning years of the Polo Grounds, auto racing was conducted.
Richard Pettys father, Lee, raced there.
Distinguishing architectural feature: Horseshoe or bathtub shape, depending on how you looked at it.
Image Credit

Short porch in right field: 258 feet.
Beneficiaries: Mel Ott (323 home runs at the Polo Grounds).
Babe Ruth (85 home runs in 227 games before Yankee Stadium opened).
Short porch in left field: 279 feet.
Beneficiary: Bobby Thomson, who hit the so-called Shot Heard Round the World in 1951 down the left-field line.
Casey Stengel connection: Giants outfielder, 1921-23.
Mets manager, 1962-63.
Babe Ruth connection: Played there three seasons for the Yankees (1920-22) plus in three World Series (losing the first two, in 1921 and 22, when the Polo Grounds was the home for both teams).
Subway World Series: 1921-23.
Music: A chorus of 1,200 and a full orchestra performed Verdis Requiem in June 1916.
The Times called it impressive and interesting and as delightful as could be expected given the open-air acoustics.
The Giants werent playing because it was a Sunday.
Whats there now: Apartments.
Fun fact: Polo was never played at this version of the Polo Grounds below Coogans Bluff, only at the original site, on 110th Street, in the 1880s.
Image Babe Ruth scoring a run in his final season with the Yankees, in 1934.
Yankee Stadium was already known as the House That Ruth Built.
Credit Associated Press

Yankee Stadium

First game: April 18, 1923.
Yankees 4, Red Sox 1.
74,200 See Yankees Open New Stadium; Ruth Hits Home Run.
Record Baseball Crowd Cheers as Sluggers Drive Beats Red Sox, 4 to 1.
25,000 Are Turned Away.
Gates to $2,500,000 Arena Are Closed Half an Hour Before Start of Game.
Governor Smith Throws Out First Ball  Shawkey, in Great Form, Allows Only Three Hits : It was the first ballpark to be called a stadium.
Last game: Sept. 21, 2008.
Yankees 7, Orioles 3.
A Long Goodbye to an 85-Year Run 

Other games: The N.F.L.
Giants played there from 1956 to 1973.
The Stadium was the site of what came to be called  The Greatest Game Ever Played,  the 1958 championship game between the Giants and the Baltimore Colts.
College football, especially Army-Notre Dame games.
Host to a groundbreaking Negro league baseball doubleheader in 1930, then was the frequent home of the New York Black Yankees for much of the time from 1936 to 1947.
Joe Louis and Muhammad Ali fought major fights there; Alis third bout with Ken Norton was the final fight staged at the Stadium.
Distinguishing architectural feature: Frieze decorating the top of the Stadium.
Short porch in right field: Originally 258 feet, then 295 feet.
Advertisement

Left-handed-hitting beneficiaries: Mickey Mantle (266 home runs, though not all left-handed), Babe Ruth (259) and Lou Gehrig (251).
Image The roofline frieze was such an elemental part of the design of old Yankee Stadium that it was incorporated in the new Stadium.
The Yankees didn't recycle all those pillars, though.
Credit Patrick A. Burns/The New York Times

Casey Stengel connection: Played in the first World Series game there as a member of the Giants in 1923, hitting the game-deciding home run in the top of the ninth.
Yankees manager, 1949-60.
They were terrific, winning 10 pennants and seven World Series in 12 years.
Babe Ruth connection: It was called the House That Ruth Built.
He played there from 1923 to 1934.
Subway World Series: 1923, 1936, 1937 and 1951, against the Giants; 1941, 1947, 1949, 1952, 1953, 1955 and 1956, against the Dodgers; and 2000, against the Mets.
11-1 in those Series.
Music: The first concert was a 1969 R&B show hosted by the Isley Brothers.
Later artists included U2 and Billy Joel.
Whats there now: Athletic fields, including three diamonds, adjacent to the new Yankee Stadium.
Fun fact: A year after the evangelist Billy Graham attracted 100,000 people, a Jehovahs Witnesses convention drew more than 123,000 people to the ballpark in 1958.
Many of those outside munched hot dogs as they listened to the speeches over amplifiers, The Times reported.
Image Shea Stadium was home to young fans and other baseball staples  peanut shells on the ground and popcorn in hand.
Credit John Orris/The New York Times

Shea Stadium

First game: April 17, 1964.
Pittsburgh Pirates 4, Mets 3.
Shea Stadium Opens With Big Traffic Jam.
Last game: Sept. 28, 2008.
Florida Marlins 4, Mets 2.
Bitter Repeat on.
Stadiums Final Day 

Other games: The Jets played at Shea from 1964 to 1983, and the Giants joined them for the 1975 season.
The Yankees played there in 1974-75 while Yankee Stadium was being renovated.
So in 1975, Shea was home to two major league baseball teams and two N.F.L.
teams.
Not especially good teams: The Mets were 82-80, the Yankees 83-77, the Jets 3-11 and the Giants 5-9.
Thats an overall 173-177 record.
The teams were 88-85 at Shea.
Distinguishing architectural feature: The big apple in center field.
Image The Mayors Trophy exhibition game at Shea in 1964 reunited Casey Stengel, the former Yankees manager who was then managing the Mets, with two of his old Yankees stars, Mickey Mantle and Yogi Berra.
Credit Larry C. Morris/The New York Times

Porch in right field: Not short at all, 338 feet.
Left-handed-hitting victim: Darryl Strawberry (127 home runs at Shea.
With a fence 40 feet closer, how many?).
Advertisement

Casey Stengel connection: Managed the Mets there in 1964-65.
Subway World Series: 2000.
The Yankees won.
Music: The Beatles ushered in the era of arena concerts, playing at Shea on Aug. 15, 1965 , and Aug. 23, 1966.
The Police drew 70,000 there in 1983.
Whats there now: A parking lot for Citi Field.
Fun fact: A dome was proposed for Shea in March 1965, and the citys sports commissioner said it could be ready in 1966.
Turns out, however, that the stadiums foundation could not stand the weight.
Image Hilltop Park in its final season, 1912.
The Highlanders, who became the Yankees, lost 102 games that season and never won a pennant while playing in the ballpark.
Credit George Grantham Bain Collection, via Library of Congress

Hilltop Park

First game: April 30, 1903.
Highlanders 6, Senators 2.
Baseballs Big Crowd.
Auspicious Opening of American League Grounds in This City.
Home Team Won From Washington  New York National League Nine Lost in Philadelphia.
Last game: Oct. 5, 1912.
Yankees 8, Senators 6.
Senators Force Yankees to Win.
With Second Place Safe, Griffith Sends Nick Altrock Into the Box on Hilltop.
Other games: The National League Giants spent two months playing at Hilltop Park after the Polo Grounds burned down before the start of the 1911 season.
Columbia Universitys football team rented the ballpark for its game against Williams on Oct. 8, 1904, forcing the baseball team then known as the Highlanders to relocate a doubleheader to Boston in the heat of a pennant race.
The Highlanders lost both games and also lost the pennant to the Pilgrims (now Red Sox) by one and a half games.
Columbia, however, won the football game .
Image Credit

Distinguishing architectural feature: The ballpark was built on high ground in Washington Heights, thus earning its name.
Distant porch in right field: 400 feet.
Center field was even more unreachable: 542 feet.
Victim: Everyone.
The best Highlanders slugger in that Dead Ball Era: Hal Chase, 20 home runs at Hilltop Park.
Whats there now: Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.
Fun fact: The ballpark was originally, if briefly, called American League Park.
And The Times called the team the Greater New York Club and the Greater New Yorks on opening day.
They quickly became the Highlanders and before long the Yankees.
That will leave more than a dozen teams with netting that goes beyond Manfreds 2015 recommendation.
More and more, the Twins have company.
From our perspective, it was simply the right thing to do, St. Peter said of the 2016 extension.
Im happy to report, over time, theres no doubt in my mind our nets here have prevented some injuries.
Its hard to quantify just how many.
Mostly batted balls, but sometimes even bats that sometimes fly out of batters hands.
The Twins allowed season ticket-holders to check out the sight lines behind the new netting before the 2016 season and to request a seat relocation if they found the view unacceptable.
St. Peter said roughly 10 customers took the Twins up on the offer.
For our season-ticket base, netting is part of their new reality, he said.
Target Field was built on a tight, eight-acre parcel, bordered by two bridges, an interstate highway and a garbage incinerator.
Railroad tracks had to be relocated.
The close quarters gave Target Field, which opened in 2010, an intimate feel.
But it also left fans closer to hard-hit foul balls.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
St. Peter said the club was discussing whether to add even more netting.
The Mets added netting this summer at Citi Field that stretches halfway into the outfield, and St. Peter wouldnt rule out some clubs eventually deciding to run netting all the way to the foul poles.
I think over time youre going to see more netting across the industry, with hopes of doing everything we can to prevent the types of injury that took place yesterday, St. Peter said.
We still have injuries in our ballpark and weve added more netting.
It isnt a perfect system.
Thats why its something we always need to continually evaluate and find ways to get better.
I have to tell you, he added, were not married to our current net configuration.
We expect over time it will probably grow.
St. Peter also noted that he had watched video replays of Wednesdays incident and had been shaken by what he witnessed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Yankee Stadium has netting that only runs to the beginning of each dugout.
If it ran the length of the dugouts, as it does at Target Field, the line drive that struck the girl would have almost certainly been deflected away.
On Thursday, Manfred that in light of Wednesdays incident, baseball would redouble its efforts to get more teams to add protective netting in their ballparks.
He also said he was encouraged by the number of conversations his office had with various clubs on Thursday about installing more netting.
So a trend the Twins began may be gathering more momentum.
This summer, they stretched the netting at Citi Field halfway into the outfield.
In response, Trost offered what amounted to a verbal shrug.
We have fans that are communicating with us that they are upset that were even considering it, he said of any additional netting at Yankee Stadium beyond what Manfred had asked for.
Trosts statement certainly suggested that the Yankees were as mindful of their high-paying fans who didnt want extra screens interfering with their views as they were with keeping everyone safe.
At that time, in late July, Trost said that the Yankees were consulting with the architectural firm that built their stadium about the feasibility of installing extra netting.
He said the Yankees would think about it and study it and look at it.
We dont think this is a three-day job, he said.
Well, then, is it a 60-day job?
Because thats about how long it has been since Trost made that statement.
I bet it could be a three-hour job if that little girl in the stands on Wednesday night was your child.
Yes, the Yankees also put a statement on their website in early August saying that they were seriously exploring additional netting, but they have said little on the matter since then.
On Thursday, they issued a statement saying their thoughts and prayers were with the injured girl and that they were in contact with her family.
But thoughts and prayers are not enough.
Meanwhile, across town, the Mets look like champions for extending their netting and doing so proactively before something awful happened.
After all, safety changes in sports almost always seem to happen only after disasters happen.
It was only when a 13-year-old girl was killed by a flying puck at an N.H.L.
game in 2002 that the league called for mandatory netting to be installed at both ends of the rink.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

So now the question is what it will take for Major League Baseball to make every team do what some teams already have and extend the protective netting even more.
Youd figure that a toddler getting hit in the face would be the tipping point and there were signs on Thursday that maybe it will be, with three teams  Cincinnati, Seattle, San Diego  all saying they would extend the netting now in their ballparks.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
It is worth remembering in all this that, for decades, there have been harrowing incidents at baseball games in which fans were injured.
In 1970, a 14-year-old boy was killed by a foul ball at Dodgers Stadium.
Many years and many injuries later, a Red Sox fan in 2015 was hit with a broken bat at Fenway Park and suffered serious injuries.
Following the Fenway incident, Manfred stated that the sports first and foremost concern remains the safety of our fans.
He also noted that the issue was complicated, since some fans want to sit close to the field.
And when Manfred subsequently made the suggestion to all 30 teams that they add some additional netting, he cited another complication  that each stadium is designed differently.
These complications all have the feel of an excuse.
And in the end, safety issues never go away.
Consider what Nascar has been through.
For years, Nascar officials and racetrack owners have struggled to balance fan safety with the desire of some to sit as close as possible to the track.
In 2013, in what certainly wasnt the first big crash at Daytona International Speedway that injured spectators, more than 30 fans were hurt when debris flew into the stands.
One of the injured fans said he suffered a traumatic brain injury, and this year finally settled a lawsuit with Nascar.
After that 2013 crash, the speedway was renovated.
Its website touted that the front row will be moved up 12 feet to improve trackside views.
Unsaid, likely on purpose: to improve the chance you wont be hit by a flying tire.
No sport wants to acknowledge that its fans arent safe.
What it should acknowledge is its duty to do everything in its power to keep them safe.
And thats where baseball should find itself right now.
On Thursday, Manfred took note of Wednesdays incident in a statement and said that baseball officials would redouble our efforts on this important issue, although how much pressure he will ultimately apply on reluctant teams is unclear.
He did tell reporters on Thursday night in San Diego that he was encouraged by how many conversations his office was now having with teams about adding more netting.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Players know putting in more netting is the right thing to do.
Many, including the Yankees C. C. Sabathia, say they wont let their families sit in the stands without netting in front of them.
Theyve called for ballparks to be safer for fans.
If you saw the look on Todd Fraziers face on Wednesday after his line drive hit the little girl, you would know why.
Frazier, who has two children who are younger than 3, crouched.
He rested his head on his bat.
He looked like he was about to cry.
Its time for teams, all the teams, to have those human emotions, too  and act on them.
Its called doing the right thing.
Photo

MIAMI  Giancarlo Stanton hit his 56th homer, the most in the major leagues, and drove in three runs as the Miami Marlins completed a three-game sweep of the Mets with a 9-2 victory on Wednesday.
Stanton connected in the eighth inning for his 30th home run since the All-Star break.
It was his 35th career homer against the Mets, including eight this year.
He kills us.
He literally kills us, Mets Manager Terry Collins said.
You cant hang stuff.
We had him down and away all series long when we made pitches.
When you make mistakes on the plate, he kills you, and he did today.
Stanton also hit a run-scoring single, giving him 120 R.B.I.
on the season.
He made a fine catch, too, against the right-field fence to rob Asdrubal Cabrera.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A. J. Ellis and Miguel Rojas hit back-to-back homers off Mets reliever Erik Goeddel to start the eighth.
With one out, Stanton pulled a breaking pitch over the left-field fence for a two-run homer.
Under the prodding of Commissioner Rob Manfred in 2015, all 30 teams agreed to extend the traditional protective netting behind home plate to at least the inner edge of both dugouts.
About a third of the teams have extended the netting further, to at least the far end of the dugout, and the Mets added netting even beyond that.
However, the Yankees have yet to expand their nets, although they did issue a statement in August that said they were seriously exploring that option.
Photo

If Yankee Stadium had netting in place that did stretch to the far end of the third-base dugout, Fraziers line drive, in all likelihood, would not have reached the stands.
As a result, Wednesdays incident will almost certainly increase pressure on the Yankees to act quickly to make their netting longer.
New York City Councilman Rafael Espinal, who introduced legislation in May to require all New York City baseball stadiums to have protective netting all the way to the foul poles, said after Wednesdays episode that he would hold a public hearing on the issue on Oct. 25.
I commend the Mets for stepping to the plate and leading the country by extending their netting farther than any other team, Espinal said in a statement.
We have been waiting to hear from the Yankees on their plans on how they will move forward and urge them to let the public know as soon as possible where they stand.
According to a Yankee Stadium paramedic, who was not authorized to publicly discuss fan injuries, the girl appeared to have been struck by the ball in the nose and right eye and was bleeding when she was carried by her grandfather to a first aid station behind the stands.
That was a screaming line drive, said Tom Barton, a fan from San Francisco who said he was seated three rows behind the girl.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
I just wanted to cry for this little kid, he added.
There was so much blood.
Steve Beattie, who lives in Vancouver, British Columbia, said he was sitting about eight rows behind the girl and described what he witnessed as brutal.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

According to the stadium scoreboard, the ball left Fraziers bat at 106 miles per hour.
It was terrible, Frazier said afterward.
It was something I wish had never happened.
Very unlucky, man.
I have two kids under 3 years old and I thought of them.
I just hope shes all right.
Frazier and his teammates Chase Headley, Brett Gardner and C. C. Sabathia were in agreement that protective netting needed to be extended at Yankee Stadium, echoing statements that Mets players made after the Citi Field netting was expanded.
Photo

I feel like we need to get the net, said Sabathia, who said he insists his own children sit behind netting whenever they come to a game.
I think every ballpark should have it.
Twins second baseman Brian Dozier said he cried when he saw the girl get hit.
I still have a knot in my stomach, he said.
Every stadium needs to have nets.
I dont care about the damn view of the fan.
Its all about safety.
Back in late July, after the Mets used the All-Star Game break to extend their protective netting about halfway into the outfield, the Yankees were asked for their reaction.
Lonn Trost, the teams chief operating officer and general counsel, responded by saying the Yankees had begun talking to the Yankee Stadium architects about the feasibility of more netting.
But he also noted that he received complaints from some fans who sit in box seats and who would have their views affected by additional netting.
We have fans that are communicating with us that they are upset that were even considering it, Trost said.
Not long after Trost made that comment, a fan at Yankee Stadium was hit in the head by a foul ball off the bat of Aaron Judge.
And, coincidence or not, the Yankees a short while later published a statement on their website saying they were looking closely at a netting extension.
The third incident at Yankee Stadium this season occurred in May, when the barrel of a shattered bat struck a boy sitting about six rows from the field, just past the third-base dugout.
He was taken from the stands holding a towel to his forehead.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Trost did not respond to request for comments after Wednesdays incident.
The Yankees issued a statement noting the girl had been given first aid at the stadium and then taken to an area hospital.
The team said federal patient privacy laws prevented them from providing more information.
So after Matz missed the first two months of the 2017 season with what the Mets described as elbow inflammation, it seemed like more of the same.
Still, the Mets did not express concern that there was something seriously wrong with his arm.
Matz said team doctors told him the inflammation might have been a side effect from the bone spur surgery the previous fall, and they prescribed rest and platelet-rich plasma injections.
Matz then returned to the rotation in early June and pitched fairly well in his first five starts.
But he then began to pitch less effectively, his earned run average ballooned, and by the second half of August, the Mets medical staff decided to take another look.
This time, on Aug. 21, they concluded that he had ulnar nerve irritation in his elbow.
Two days later, Matz underwent surgery to reposition the nerve  the same operation Jacob deGrom underwent last fall and from which he has made a successful comeback this season.
Matz said in a recent interview that he was glad the teams medical staff had figured out this issue, and took heart in the notion that he, like deGrom, would recover well.
Still, questions linger, particularly in a lost season in which so much has gone wrong for the Mets on the injury front.
Isnt it reasonable to think the ulnar nerve issue was bothering Matz for some time?
If so, could the problem have been detected sooner?
Should Matz have been pitching at all from June to August, if, as he later admitted, he was dealing with discomfort off and on that began in spring training?
Photo

These are, of course, the kinds of questions the Mets have been confronted with as other players, like Noah Syndergaard and Yoenis Cespedes, ended up with their seasons derailed.
And the questions are never easily answered.
Sandy Alderson, the Mets general manager, declined to talk about the way Matzs case unfolded.
But what is known is that only after it was announced that he would undergo surgery for the ulnar nerve problem was it revealed that he had been skipping numerous bullpen sessions between starts this season.
And that he was limiting the use of a secondary pitch, a slider, in hopes of lessening the strain on his troublesome elbow.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But if that was the case, was he healthy enough to pitch in the first place?
Ultimately, it was my decision, Matz said recently in an interview when asked about the 13 starts he made this season before he was shut down.
I wanted to go out there and pitch because Im so sick of being on the D.L.
And I did everything I could.
Matzs frequent injuries have frustrated some within the Mets organization, something Matz is no doubt aware of.
He tries to keep himself in top physical shape and seems careful about what he puts in his body.
For instance, when his bone spur was discovered early last season, he resisted taking anti-inflammatory medicine.
And this season, Matz said he received only a couple of shots of the anti-inflammatory drug Toradol for his balky elbow.
Some guys take it more, he said.
It definitely helps.
Matz said that when he did pitch this season he felt more discomfort between starts than when on the mound, when adrenaline kicked in.
His average fastball velocity was 93.1 miles per hour, similar to last years average of 93.6.
As Matzs pitching deteriorated this summer, he tried to push through the pain, in part because the diagnosis he received in spring training concluded that there was no structural damage to his elbow.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In my mind, he said, Im like: The M.R.I.
is clean, so this is something Im going to have to deal with.
I either have an arthritic elbow or whatever it is, but Im going to have to get past it.
Last season, after the Mets assured him he would not do additional damage to his elbow by pitching through the bone spur, surgery was pushed off until a shoulder injury short-circuited his season.
This time around, with his elbow barking, he took the same approach.
He said his elbow felt better on some days than on others.
He could extend his elbow as far as it could go, but he said it bothered him a little bit to twist his arm properly, which was perhaps affecting the movement and location of his pitches.
Even that admission, during the interview, took a bit of prodding.
Like most players, Matz is competitive and had convinced himself that discomfort was inevitable as a pitcher.
Photo

I definitely respect him for trying, deGrom said.
Youre not going to feel good every time you go out there  its a lot of games and a lot of pitches  even when there is nothing wrong.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We knew all along that it was irritating and he was unable to do his bullpens most of the time, Dan Warthen, the Mets pitching coach, said.
He wanted to pitch through it.
Doctors kept saying that physically it was O.K.
and there was nothing wrong in there; it was just an irritation.
We werent going to shut him down unless he wanted to.
Matz, meanwhile, denied that he received any pressure from the Mets to stay on the mound this season.
I didnt feel any pressure from the team, he said.
Did I feel pressure from myself?
I want to be out there competing and pitching.
But after he allowed six earned runs over three and a third innings against the Yankees on Aug. 17, Matz said that he decided it was time to see a doctor again.
He had developed a hunch that he might be dealing with the same problem  the ulnar nerve  that had afflicted deGrom and Mets reliever Erik Goeddel.
In this instance, Matz received a computed tomography examination that involved numbing the nerve with an anesthetic.
Once that happened, he said, the pain was almost instantly gone.
One reason Matz thinks his ulnar nerve issue was not detected sooner, assuming it could have been, was that he was not experiencing telltale symptoms.
The doctor said the symptoms I was getting were nontypical for nerve problems, Matz said.
I had no tingling or numbness.
In deGroms case, his ulnar nerve irritation started as tingling in his fingers before it became sharp pain.
DeGroms performance tailed off near the end of his 2016 season, just before he had the surgery.
Now the Mets can only hope Matz recovers as well from this surgery as deGrom did, because their pitching staff, which has one of the worst earned run averages in baseball, is in serious need of rehabilitation.
Syndergaard has yet to return from his early-season latissimus tear.
Matt Harveys return from his latest injury setback has been marked by ugly outings that have been demoralizing for both him and the team.
Zack Wheeler last pitched in July.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And then there is Matz, with his repositioned ulnar nerve.
Maybe he can help in 2018, after he first files away 2017 as a season to forget.
This edition of the Twins, with its young and unheralded roster, has exceeded the expectations of its own front office, which dealt away several veterans in late July, to remain in playoff contention.
But they have hardly looked the part in two games here, being limited to one run in five and two-thirds innings on Monday by Jamie Garcia  whom the Twins traded to the Yankees earlier this summer  and then seeing their deficiencies repeatedly exposed on Tuesday in a game that was delayed by an hour because of rain.
A wild pitch by Minnesota reliever Alan Busenitz in the fourth inning led to a run, and first baseman Joe Mauer misplayed a two-out grounder in the fifth that allowed another.
The Yankees ran repeatedly on right fielder Max Kepler, and three Yankees who scored reached base via a walk or getting hit by a pitch.
When the Twins had an early chance to assert themselves, loading the bases in the first inning with none out against Sabathia with two bunt singles and a base hit, they wilted.
Eduardo Escobar grounded into a double play, scoring one run, but the Twins got no more after Byron Buxton tapped one back to Sabathia.
Kepler provided Minnesotas only other run with a third-inning homer into the right-field seats that put the Twins ahead by 2-1.
The Yankees, who had a steady parade of base runners, were hardly opportunistic  they left 14 runners on base  but on this night they did not need to be.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
They jumped in front for good in the fourth.
Jacoby Ellsbury sliced a double into the left-field corner and, after Jose Berrios struck out Todd Frazier, he walked Greg Bird on a nine-pitch at-bat.
Gardner followed with a single, scoring Ellsbury to tie the score and chase Berrios.
Busenitz then bounced a pitch to Aaron Judge, allowing both runners to move up, which put Bird in position to score  which he did on Judges fly ball to right.
It gave the Yankees a 3-2 lead, which Sabathia, Chad Green, David Robertson and Aroldis Chapman carried to the finish line.
A sign of the Yankees conflicting priorities came before the game, when Manager Joe Girardi reversed course and announced that his ace, Luis Severino, would take his regular turn in the rotation on Wednesday in the series finale against the Twins instead of pitching Friday at Toronto, which Girardi had initially decided to do earlier in the week.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

That gives the Yankees the option of using Severino on the final day of the regular season  if they have a chance of finishing ahead of the Red Sox.
That possibility grew a little more dim on Tuesday when the Red Sox beat the Baltimore Orioles, 1-0, in 11 innings.
It was the Red Soxs third extra-innings victory in the last five days.
While the Yankees have won five of their last six games, they have gained no ground on the Red Sox, who they do not play again in the regular season.
I think everybody knows the situation, Green said.
We obviously know theyre going to have to lose games and were going to have win, but we can only control what we do.
When the Red Sox won in extra innings on Friday and on Monday, the Yankees returned to the clubhouse TVs to watch after they had won their game.
With their game running late on Tuesday because of the rain delay, the Yankees kept an eye on the scoreboard.
It stinks.
Its terrible, said Frazier after pulling in vain for the Orioles.
You see it  oh, God almighty, find a way to win.
But thats what happens when you need help.
Sometimes you dont get it.
Its tough to watch.
You cant really rely on hope sometimes.
The feats have come with startling regularity.
On Sept. 12, the Minnesota Twins became the first team ever to homer in each of the first seven innings of a game.
On June 24, three Oakland Athletics rookies  Franklin Barreto, Jaycob Brugman and Matt Olson  became the first trio of teammates in more than a century to each hit their first major league homers in the same game.
And 108 players have hit at least 20 home runs, close to last seasons record of 111.
I still think hitting 20 home runs is a big feat, to be honest with you, said the Yankees Todd Frazier, who has 26.
I dont care if theres a lot of guys doing it, its awesome.
Its pretty neat, man, from a hitters standpoint.
We love home runs.
The trend has been well-documented: More and more hitters are tailoring their swings to hit fly balls, which have a much better chance to go for extra bases than ground balls.
More slugging means more run production, which helps the players team  and, usually, his earning power.
The spike in home runs has happened relatively quickly.
Baseball last expanded in 1998, and starting that year there were at least 5,000 home runs every year for nine seasons.
But in the next nine seasons, through 2015, only one featured at least 5,000 homers.
The low point in the last two decades was 2014, when just 4,186 home runs were hit.
The total climbed to 4,909 in 2015, then 5,610 last year, making for a curious trend line.
An undetected, large-scale increase in performance-enhancing drug use could still be an explanation for the current surge in home runs, but the stricter testing and penalties in place would argue against that notion.
If you want to use the 2000 analogy, we know what was going on there, said the broadcaster Al Leiter, an All-Star left-hander for the Mets in 2000 who neutralized power hitters with inside cutters, keeping opponents from extending their arms at the plate.
The assumption now is that steroid testing is legit, and its working, so a lot of it has to do with approach, Leiter added.
You dont see two-strike approaches anymore.
Guys dont care if they strike out, and its basically turn and burn.
It used to be turn and burn for three or four guys in the lineup.
Now its seven.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Leiter, who calls games for the YES Network and works as an analyst for the MLB Network, said too many players who should be hitting eight to 10 homers per season were now hitting 15 to 20.
Bert Blyleven, the Hall of Fame pitcher and Twins broadcaster, echoed Leiter, saying that even bottom-of-the-order hitters are willing to risk strikeouts for the chance to go deep.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But, Blyleven added, the problem really starts on the mound.
I would have to say the bottom line is the lack of quality pitching, he said.
We see a lot of it.
A lot of guys come up so quick, all they do is throw as hard as they can.
I dont care how hard they throw, if the balls right there, these guys are going to hit it.
As for the balls themselves, Major League Baseball has said repeatedly that extensive testing has shown them to conform to normal specifications.
But if the balls are wound tighter  even within an acceptable range  they could be harder, with lower seams, and less prone to resistance when airborne.
Theories abound, said Twins Manager Paul Molitor, a Hall of Famer who had 3,319 hits but just one season with at least 20 home runs.
Baseball, bats, velocity  in some ways its tougher, but in some ways it provides some of the power  and Im not sure which one has the most merit.
I do see that the ball seems to soar, from people that are hitting it farther than maybe they did a year ago, and they kind of look like the same person.
For me, theres something in there.
Whatever the cause, there is little doubt that modern hitters have noticed the rapid transformation of some of their peers.
Hitters like Martinez, Josh Donaldson, Daniel Murphy and Justin Turner have all made a dedicated effort in recent years to hit more balls in the air.
Data on launch angles and exit velocity is readily available to show the precise bat path needed to hit a ball hard and far.
Rhys Hoskins, a rookie for the Philadelphia Phillies, recently belted his 18th home run in just his 34th career game  by far the fastest anyone has ever reached 18 homers.
When Hoskins was in the low minors, he added a leg kick as a timing mechanism that helped him hit balls far over the infield.
At 6 feet 4 inches and 225 pounds, he said, he will not leg out many infield hits.
Theres not a lot of hits on the ground here, especially for a guy like me, Hoskins said recently.
So I think, to maximize success, youve got to hit the ball in the gaps.
In the gaps is a good start.
Over the gaps and the fences is where the game has gone, at an unprecedented pace.
But is it good for the sport?
Well, people do like home runs, because thats exciting, Leiter said.
But I dont know how exciting it is to watch a combined 18 to 20 strikeouts a game between the two teams, and theres four home runs and nine combined hits.
I dont know how exciting that is.
An all-or-nothing game becomes largely a feat of strength, often at the expense of daring baserunning, acrobatic fielding and a faster pace of action.
Leiter has boundless enthusiasm for his sport; at 51, he is far from an old crank pining for days gone by.
But the home run binge has left him somewhat resigned to the sports new reality.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Trust me, Im a fan of the game, Leiter said.
But I dont know how, if and ever, its going to change.
The only thing Ive gotten use to, Suzuki told reporters recently when asked about pinch-hitting, is that I dont think Ill ever get used to it.
Even so, Suzuki has dedicated himself to creating a routine that gives him the best chance to excel.
Menechino noted that many pinch-hitters start warming up later in the game, but Suzuki has adopted a different habit.
He hits in the indoor cage in the first and third innings, Menechino said.
No one else does that.
Early on, I had to write it on my hand, bottom of the third, because I would get caught up in something else and before I knew it, Id forgotten to meet him in the cage.
By starting early, he knows hell never get caught with his pants down.
Suzuki is not the hitter he once was  he was hitting .265 on the season going into Tuesday nights game in Miami against the Mets  and his large number of pinch-hits this season are, in part, a reflection of the fact he has been put in that role so often by Marlins Manager Don Mattingly.
Hes easy to use, Mattingly said before Tuesdays game.
You always feel hes going to give you a quality at-bat.
Going into Tuesdays game, Suzuki had 100 plate appearances as a pinch-hitter this season, and 91 actual at-bats.
Both are major league records, with two former Mets (Rusty Staub, 94 plate appearances in 1983, and Lenny Harris, 83 at-bats in 2001) holding those marks until now.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The 26 hits Suzuki has in those 91 at-bats translates into a solid .286 average and includes three doubles and a home run.
Back in 1995, Van der Wal got his 28 hits in 72 at-bats, for a dazzling .389 average.
Van der Wal was 29 when he pulled off his feat, 14 years younger than Suzuki.
The pinch hits that Suzuki has compiled this season are not his only statistical achievement.
On Sept. 8 in Atlanta, a Suzuki single was the 2,500th of his major league career.
Afterward, one of his teammates, Dee Gordon expressed his amazement when told what Suzuki had done.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Are you kidding me?
Gordon exclaimed.
I cant believe that.
Ichis amazing.
To me, as a similar leadoff-type hitter, 2,500 singles is incredible because I understand how difficult that is to do.
2,500 singles?
Thats crazy.
Most guys cant even dream of getting that many hits of any kind in a whole career.
Indeed, just 100 players in history have recorded at least 2,500 total hits and Suzuki is now just the sixth player to hit that many singles.
The Yankees Derek Jeter was the last player to do it, in 2014.
He finished his career with 2,595, joining Pete Rose (3,215), Ty Cobb (3,053), Eddie Collins (2,643), and Willie Keeler (2,513) in that group.
With home runs on the rise in baseball and sluggers like Giancarlo Stanton and Aaron Judge capturing huge amounts of attention, the fact that Suzuki has reached the 2,500 mark for singles is not exactly a major headline.
Still, there are plenty of baseball people who appreciate the art of the single and one of them, Don Sutton, the Hall of Fame pitcher and Atlanta Braves radio broadcaster, extolled Suzuki.
Were in an era of the home run and there is no shame in falling down on your butt swinging away trying to get one, Sutton said.
If Ichiro had a big ego, do you think hed be happy having 2,500 singles?
No, hed want 500 homers.
Thats why I say its not just fantastic hand-eye coordination, but its also the ability to be content with a less sexy, but tremendously important, result.
If things go Suzukis way in the final two weeks of the season, perhaps a couple of singles off his bat will come as pinch-hits, giving him one more record.
He is making $2 million this season with the Marlins and the team has a $2 million option to keep him in a Miami uniform in 2018.
Suzuki, for his part, has given no indication he is about to retire.
Somewhere in the major leagues, Miami or elsewhere, more singles and pinch-hits probably await.
Second-place Miami is 10 games under .500, and Atlanta and the Mets are worse.
The Phillies, at 59-91, are the second-worst team in baseball.
The last team to win a division by at least 20 games was the 2008 Los Angeles Angels.
It has happened four other times in the six-division era: the 1999 Indians, 1998 Yankees and the 1995 Braves and Indians.
Two of these five teams, the Yankees and Braves, won the World Series.
Four of the five won their division the next year as well.
Most of them also benefited from playing in a division with no other winning teams.
The exception was the 1998 Yankees.
The Red Sox were 92-70 that season and won the wild card.
But the Yankees were 114-48, the most wins in more than 90 years.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
That 1995 Indians team deserves special mention.
While most of these teams won their titles by 20, 21 or 22 games, the Indians managed to take their title by a mind-boggling 30 games, a record.
Their 100-44 record in a strike-shortened schedule trounced runner-up Kansas Citys 70-74 mark.
In the four-division era it was even harder to win by 20 games.
Only three teams did  the 1986 Mets, 1983 Chicago White Sox and 1975 Cincinnati Reds.
Before the leagues broke into divisions in 1969, as you might expect, romping to a 20-game victory was extraordinarily difficult.
Even Babe Ruths Yankees couldnt do it.
(The 1927 team, sometimes cited as the best in history, won by 19 games.)
But two teams somehow did.
The 1902 Pirates finished 27 games ahead of the Brooklyn Superbas.
Perhaps this outstanding team is not remembered because the World Series did not start until next year.
The 1906 Chicago Cubs are usually remembered for their 116-36 record, the best in history.
The New York Giants, in second place, were a more-than-respectable 96-56 and finished 20 games out.
And honorable mention goes to the 1884 St. Louis Maroons of the Union Association, which is considered by some to be a major league.
A dazzling 94-19 record gave them a 21-game margin over the Cincinnati Outlaw Reds.
The league went out of business after a year, and the Maroons moved to the National League, but didnt fare well there, finishing last.
And who was on the mound for the Yankees?
Why, Garcia, of course, looking to deal a blow to his former team  and perhaps win the confidence of his current manager along the way.
Asked before the game if he thought facing the Twins might give Garcia extra motivation, Yankees Manager Joe Girardi said: I sure hope so.
I think thats an interesting twist to this.
And if there had been any regret on the part of Minnesota for prematurely trading away Garcia, his performance Monday night probably intensified it.
Although he was again deprived of a victory  that went to David Robertson, who came in to get the final out of the sixth inning and pitch a clean seventh  Garcia pitched effectively in the Yankees 2-1 win in the first game of an important three-game series at Yankee Stadium.
Jaime was just fabulous, an outstanding start on his part, Girardi said after the game.
Just last week, Garcia was visibly angered when Girardi removed him in the fifth inning of a game against the Tampa Bay Rays at Citi Field, depriving him of the chance to get his first win since that July 28 victory over the Athletics as a Twin.
But on Monday night, he left the Yankee Stadium mound with his head up, having delivered five and two-thirds innings of quality pitching.
The game was tied at 1-1 at the time, but the single that Garcia allowed to Joe Mauer just before leaving the game was only the Twins fourth hit of the game.
However, unlike last week, when he avoided making eye contact with Girardi while muttering to himself, Garcia nodded to Girardi, calmly handed the ball over and strode off the field to a warm ovation.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Garcias outing was notable, too, for the nine strikeouts he notched, including five in the first two innings.
After he departed in the bottom of the sixth, the Yankees scratched out a run on singles from Chase Headley and Starlin Castro and a sacrifice fly by Todd Frazier.
That was enough for the victory.
It gave the Yankees a five-game cushion ahead of the Twins in the wild-card race and moved the Yankees to within two and a half games of the American League East-leading Boston Red Sox, pending the outcome of their game against the Orioles in Baltimore late Monday.
I didnt get to know Jaime all that well, Twins Manager Paul Molitor said before the game.
Its just one of those things; I dont know if Ive ever been part of something so short-lived.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Garcia baffled the Twins with his slider, which accounted for seven strikeouts, and probably kept himself in the game by inducing Twins catcher Jason Castro to rap into a double play to end the fifth.
The Yankees had to weather a white-knuckle eighth inning in which reliever Dellin Betances once again struggled with his control, loading the bases on a hit batter and two walks.
Girardi replaced him with Aroldis Chapman, who quelled the threat with four pitches, all more than 100 miles per hour  a three-pitch strikeout of Mauer and a first-pitch fly ball by Byron Buxton.
Chapman then pitched a perfect ninth inning to earn his 19th save of the season.
I wish I had his arm, Robertson said of Chapman.
Its unfair what he throws.
Throwing like that and getting five outs, that could be a game-changer come playoff time.
Although Girardi maintained that he trusted Garcia, and said there were no lingering resentments from his quick hook last Wednesday in Flushing, he got his bullpen up early on Monday.
Chad Green began warming up when Garcia allowed two singles to start the fifth and Robertson quickly got ready to go into the game after Ehire Adrianza led off the sixth by lining out hard to Brett Gardner in left.
The Yankees had taken a 1-0 lead on a solo home run by Aaron Judge off Twins starter Ervin Santana in the first inning.
It was Judges 44th homer of the season, which not only leads the American League but is the most hit by a Yankee in a single season since Alex Rodriguez hit 54 in 2007, when he won his third Most Valuable Player Award.
The Twins tied it in the fifth, partly because of Judges error in right field.
His misplay of Eduardo Escobars single allowed Eddie Rosario, who had led off with a single, to advance to third, from where he scored on Robbie Grossmans groundout.
Cashman could not find a match with the Diamondbacks to work out a trade but wondered if another team could.
That August, Shane Greene, then a rookie right-hander with the Yankees, had thrown two gems against the powerful Detroit Tigers, allowing two runs in 15 innings.
Cashman told Dave Dombrowski, then the Tigers general manager, that he would give him Greene if Dombrowski could get Gregorius.
Dombrowski has a reputation for quick, decisive action, and he came through within two days, trading pitcher Robbie Ray and an infield prospect to Arizona for Gregorius, and flipping Gregorius to the Yankees for Greene.
Ray is now an All-Star for the Diamondbacks, and Greene is closing for the rebuilding Tigers after fizzling as a starter.
At the time, I felt like we were pitching-deficient, and we were depleting one area of need to shore up another area of need, Cashman said.
It was a difficult decision.
I was so desperate for a shortstop, I had to step up and put an important piece on the table to get it done.
Cashman said he remembered the wisdom of front-office mentors like Gene Michael, Bill Livesey and Brian Sabean, who had always emphasized the importance of strength up the middle  catcher, shortstop, second base and center field.
He insisted he liked Greene despite his ordinary minor league track record, but he prioritized the everyday player.
The deal looks like a heist, because Gregorius, now 27, has developed into a worthy heir to Jeter.
On Sunday he matched Jeters club record for homers by a shortstop (Jeter hit his 24 in 1999) and only one major league shortstop, Clevelands Francisco Lindor, has hit more homers this season.
Gregorius is also hitting .292 with 81 R.B.I.
after going 0 for 4 on Monday.
Photo

Just hitting line drives, thats all Im trying to do, said Gregorius, who hit 20 homers last season.
Im not trying to do anything different, just trying to be the same player.
Im just working on my swing, trying to make it shorter and quicker and stronger.
Gregoriuss minor league high in homers was seven, which he did twice in the Cincinnati Reds system.
He signed with the Reds out of Curaao for $50,000 in 2007, the same year they drafted Todd Frazier in the first round.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

When I first saw him, he was skin and bones, man, said Frazier, now the Yankees third baseman.
It was crazy.
He was only 17  I started growing at 18, so he probably started sprouting around that time  and next thing you know he started lifting a little more.
And now look at him: Hes one of the best shortstops in the league.
Hes underrated, and thats the best part about him.
He doesnt look for accolades, he doesnt look for praise.
All he wants to do is win.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Frazier said he had been impressed by Gregoriuss adjustments within at-bats, as well as by his willingness to choke up at times and trust his hands.
People dont understand how hard it is to trust that, and to commit to it, Frazier said.
It took me six years and Im finally doing it now with two strikes.
Gregoriuss power is not a product of the cozy dimensions in right field at Yankee Stadium.
Through Sunday, he had 11 homers and a .435 slugging percentage at home, with 13 homers and a .548 slugging percentage on the road.
We envisioned that he was going to impact the baseball; we envisioned that he would hit some home runs, Manager Joe Girardi said.
I dont know if any of us put a number on it, but what Ive seen is what you see from a lot of players  they just continue to mature and get better and better and understand who they are.
The Yankees have continued to supplement their lineup with other players still in that process of discovery.
Second baseman Starlin Castro  acquired from the Chicago Cubs in a December 2015 trade  is also 27.
He made the All-Star team this season and is hitting around .300.
Catcher Gary Sanchez and Judge are pillars of the future.
First baseman Greg Bird and outfielder Clint Frazier might be, too.
All are 25 or younger.
Barring a total collapse, they will soon reach the playoffs together.
Everybody sees what we can do, Gregorius said.
We were doubted in spring training, that were going to be in last, and now were here.
Its a surprise for everybody, but I knew we had a good team since the second half of 16, when they traded away all their best guys and then called the young guys up.
Its basically the same young guys from 16 thats playing right now and having a really great year.
Gregorius was the first of the young guys to arrive in the lineup, and his impact keeps growing more powerful.
The veteran N.F.L.
reporter Andrea Kremer said she was hardly surprised by the backlash against Mowinss play-by-play on the sports biggest stage.
I have no doubt that hating the sound of her voice is code for I hate that there was a woman announcing football, Kremer told me.
The whining was neither surprising nor accurate, Kremer said: One of the many positives about Beth doing the game, in addition to her being a top-notch, seasoned broadcaster, is that she has a great voice that cuts through all the ambient noise in the stadium.
Whether youre in the booth or on the field, you need a resonant voice that can be audible.
The voice is like an instrument, and Beth is blessed with some great pipes.
Much of the social-media discussion of Mowinss voice was preceded by the always dubious claim that the criticism had nothing to do with the fact that Mowins was a woman.
Setting aside that starting a tweet with Im not sexist, but usually ensures that what follows will be sexist, its hard to imagine how to separate Mowins the woman from Mowins the voice.
Beth Mowins sounds like a woman.
The negative online reaction to Mowinss play-by-play calling football games is steeped in sexism, said Rebecca Martinez, who teaches womens and gender studies at the University of Missouri.
The comments, mostly from men, have focused on her voice being annoying to the point of not wanting to listen to her.
Theyll focus on the naturally higher pitch of womens voices and shrillness, all the while claiming their critiques of higher pitch have nothing to do with sexism.
Women who have high visibility, particularly in settings that are traditionally male, will experience backlash.
Photo

The response to female broadcasters voices is not new.
Sports are commonly perceived to be an arena for men  by men, of men  and anything that disrupts that makes some men uneasy.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Sports Newsletter Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
As women in high-profile sports broadcasting jobs, we get criticized from head, and hair, to toe, Kremer said.
We are in a subjective business, and the haters are always going to find something they dont like about us because they dont want us there.
Andrew Dzurisin, an assistant professor of sociology at Middlesex County College, said the criticism stems from deep-rooted cultural beliefs.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Friday Night Lights isnt just a movie or book; its real, he said.
In many parts of the country, football is an ingrained part of masculinity, culturally.
Of the major sports, football is seen as the one that fits the traditional definition of masculinity.
Its rough, its violent, its tribal, its a mans game.
To hear a woman do the play-by-play of the sport that most fits the traditional definition of masculinity is beyond comprehension to some men.
The primal masculinity of football makes a woman calling a game antithetical to their core ideas about gender.
Barriers persist in other sports, too.
The ESPN baseball analyst Jessica Mendoza has also been the target of social-media scorn, despite high praise from many of her colleagues and from former players.
Photo

Mendoza to me is an example of new baseball intersecting with the gender and even ethnicity, Dzurisin said.
Most of her commentary revolves around analytics.
Baseball audiences also skew older, so male viewership is more likely to embrace traditional gender norms that do not include female baseball analysts.
The fact that she is Hispanic also irks men, as they see a sport of the white man until Jackie Robinson now becoming increasingly Hispanic.
Some men insist they turn to sports to get a break from women.
This is something I hear more than you would probably believe.
Ive been told my voice is too high, too low, too young-sounding, too Chicago-sounding, too harsh, too soft, and just generally obnoxious.
The only time Ive ever been complimented on my voice was when I had bronchitis and a bunch of men called in to tell me my voice was sexy.
But bronchitis is hard to maintain on any kind of regular basis just to please the lonely faction of my male listeners.
And anyway, antibiotics forced me to go back to sounding like myself.
Sports fans have been subjected to a large number of male broadcasters with objectively terrible voices, from Howard Cosells nasal staccato to Phil Simmss Kentucky twang.
Chris Russos New York accent was so thick, his Florida station supposedly sent him to speech therapy.
The White Sox Hawk Harrelson is given to long stretches of silence in the booth when hes upset.
Do we even need to list the former male athletes with marbles in their mouths and very little to say who somehow retain seats in the broadcast booth?
So its 2017, and some Americans are unwilling to tolerate a sports broadcaster sounding like a woman.
Can we overcome it?
I am confident we can.
What has the sitcom done for his English proficiency?
Its near perfect, said Floress teammate, Jerry Blevins, who is from Tennessee.
When he doesnt know something, its surprising.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Flores, Peralta and Galvis built a rudimentary command of English in school in Venezuela.
But I always got bad grades because I didnt like that way of learning, Galvis said.
Gonzalez, who was surrounded by Spanish, his first language, at home, also had English classes in school when he moved to Southern California.
Some players also received English instruction after signing with a team.
Photo

But these players said that they learned more when they arrived in the United States and fully plunged into English.
In terms of immersion, few things compare to landing in a small minor-league town with few Spanish speakers  and needing to order food.
Popular culture, especially Friends, was education through entertainment.
The basics you can learn in a classroom, said Flores, who was interviewed in Spanish, along with most of the players, for ease.
But to speak the language, that comes from here in the clubhouse, on the street or from television.
Flores said he cannot remember exactly when he first watched Friends, but it was sometime early in his minor league career in the United States, perhaps when he was in Class A as a teenager and far from home.
Although he said he understood enough English then, he was too unsure to respond in conversation.
As he grew more comfortable, he soaked up words from teammates and bought the DVDs for all 10 seasons of Friends, which ran from 1994 to 2004, so he could watch it again at home in the off-season.
Now he is surely baseballs biggest Friends fanatic.
He has visited the studio in Burbank, Calif. where the show was filmed , and has chosen the shows theme song to be played on the stadium public-address system when its his turn to bat during home games.
Photo

Flores said he still watches it almost every day, and that he had seen every episode at least seven times.
My mom thinks I watch it too much, he said.
Gonzalez speaks perhaps the best English of this bunch because he was exposed to it at a young age growing up in San Fernando, Calif.
Yet he still had help from movies and television shows, including Saved by the Bell  and Friends, which he watched with an uncle.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Thats what he watched, so wed sit there and watch TV with him, Gonzalez said.
For Galvis, the English-language broadcast with Spanish subtitles on Venezuelan television, was an excellent learning tool.
You can compare whats going on that way, he said.
If they say happy, you see hes happy and the subtitle says feliz, then you can learn.
You might not learn 100 percent, but youll learn to associate.
And if Severino did not understand a word from the show, he would ask teammates or friends for help.
Peralta said that listening to music in English and marrying an American woman were also beneficial.
He does not need subtitles anymore to watch Friends, and still watches it daily despite having already seen every episode.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Sports Newsletter Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
When were in Arizona, it starts at 11 p.m. on Nick at Nite, so I watch until 1 a.m. and then I go to sleep, he said.
Most of the players said Joey, the floundering actor played by Matt LeBlanc, was their favorite character.
The shows comedy appealed to them even though  or perhaps because  the lives of six white Americans in the West Village hardly resembled their own.
The New York that Flores has come to know playing for the Mets is not like the one represented in Friends.
In photos, it all looks the same, but the traffic and driving around is way different, he said.
Like Flores, Galvis is evangelical about Friends.
He tells young Spanish-speaking players that he is living proof that consuming popular culture in English can help.
And although he is now a capable English speaker, he still watches Friends with subtitles in Spanish so that his wife can learn English.
Marta Kauffman, one of the creators of the show, said she was delighted to hear about its unlikely and unintended impact on certain players.
She compared the phenomenon to how Viagra was originally designed to treat heart problems but later was embraced for a very different purpose.
You always want your show to be enjoyable and for people to say, Oh my God, I love watching your show, she said.
But what you dont expect is for it to accomplish something, and this feels mighty fine.
Kauffman added that she would love to meet the Friends-loving players one day.
But she offered one regret: To the player whose wife is sick of watching it so much, I apologize.
Photo

ATLANTA  Robert Gsellman held the Braves without an earned run over seven innings, Asdrubal Cabrera had a two-run, pinch-hit homer, and the Mets beat Atlanta by 5-1 on Sunday.
The Braves (67-81) were eliminated from postseason contention and must win their remaining 14 games to avoid posting a losing record in four straight seasons.
Atlanta has not had such a streak since it had seven losing seasons in a row from 1984-90.
Gsellman (7-7) scattered three hits and struck out three for his best outing since June 10, when he pitched six and two-thirds scoreless innings to beat Atlanta.
Julio Teheran (11-12), who had won his previous four starts, allowed two runs, three hits and four walks in six innings.
He became the first Braves pitcher to make 30 starts in five consecutive seasons since Greg Maddux did so from 1996-2003.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Despite winning the last two games of this series, the Mets have lost 14 of their last 20 road games.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
They took a 2-0 lead in the first when Jose Reyes hit a run-scoring triple and then scored on Amed Rosarios grounded out.
Phil Evans, who made his major league debut on Sept. 8, hit a run-scoring double in the ninth for his first R.B.I.
in the majors, and Cabrera followed with his 13th homer.
Theyre both really good hitters, Showalter said afterward of his decision.
Youre really just picking your poison there.
He was also counting on Britton, who was the best closer in baseball last season with 47 saves and a 0.54 E.R.A., to make him look smart.
Britton missed two months this season with a forearm problem and his numbers have been nowhere near as intimidating as they were in 2016.
But he is still a premier pitcher.
And in this instance, he got the better of Sanchez, buzzing a pitch past him to end the game and give the Orioles a 6-4 victory after the Yankees had stampeded them in the first three games of the series.
Photo

The result kept the Yankees from gaining ground on the Boston Red Sox, who lost, 3-2, at the Tampa Bay Rays but retained their three-game lead atop the American League East.
The games ending also allowed Showalter to breathe easier  It came up heads today, tomorrow it might be tails, he said afterward  and left Yankees Manager Joe Girardi grimacing at a missed opportunity.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

At that point, youre feeling pretty good, Girardi said afterward as he relived Showalters decision to walk Judge and let Sanchez hit.
Sanchez is a really good hitter with a lot of power.
I know Britton is tough and he doesnt give up a lot of fly balls but it just takes one mistake.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The fact that an otherwise dreary game came down to such a tense conclusion was a surprise in itself, considering that Yankees starter Sonny Gray lasted just four innings on Sunday and allowed five runs  his shortest outing of the year and his worst in nine starts as a Yankee.
C. C. Sabathia, who is 19-10 in his career against the Orioles, was originally supposed to start Sunday, but Girardi decided to insert Gray and move Sabathia to Tuesday, which allows him to avoid pitching on the artificial turf in Toronto next weekend.
But Gray was not the only disappointment for the Yankees.
Their offense, which had raked Baltimores pitchers for 34 hits and nine home runs in the first three games of the series, could manage only three hits in five innings off starter Ubaldo Jimenez, who had an 11.42 E.R.A.
in three previous starts against the Yankees this season.
I just couldnt get the ball down much today, said Gray, who is 3-6 as a Yankee and 9-11 over all this season.
My stuff just wasnt sharp from the get-go.
The Yankees lone run off Jimenez came on a Didi Gregorius home run in the second inning.
It was Gregoriuss 24th of the season, which was a career high for him and matched the most homers in a season by a Yankees shortstop, a mark he now shares with Derek Jeter, who hit 24 in 1999.
That was the Yankees only highlight of the game until Matt Holliday doubled in two runs in the sixth.
The Yankees added an unearned run in the eighth to cut the lead to 6-4, setting up the ninth-inning showdown between Showalter, Britton, Judge and Sanchez, with Girardi taking it all in.
The Yankees and Red Sox each have 13 games left in the regular season and will not play each other again.
On Monday, the Minnesota Twins, who would be the Yankees opponent in the wild-card game on Oct. 3 if the current American League standings were to hold, come to Yankee Stadium for a three-game series that could serve as a preview.
Although Girardi said it was too early to start looking ahead to the wild card game  which would, by extension, mean admitting the division title belonged to the Red Sox  he was, nevertheless, preparing to move his ace, Luis Severino, from Wednesdays game against the Twins to Fridays opener against the Blue Jays in Toronto.
That rotation shuffle would accomplish two purposes: It would line up Severino to make the Oct. 3 start on regular rest.
And it would deprive the Twins, who have never faced Severino, of the chance to see him before a possible wild-card showdown.
