NBC News Today resembled a Joe Biden 2020 presidential election launch party on Monday, but the former vice president was using the platform to promote his upcoming book.
The result: over 25 minutes of free publicity.
The former vice president was asked about running for president numerous times throughout the show, and said he isnt closing the door on the idea.
Media watchdogs should get used to this line of questioning, as Bidens appearance on Today was the start of a media tour to promote his new book, Promise Me, Dad, which will be released on Tuesday.
While Biden presumably will discuss running in 2020 anytime hes interviewed in the near future, NBC went all in and appeared to expect some type of formal announcement.
Its common for an author to be promised multiple appearances during Today when promoting a book, but Media Research Center senior analyst Kyle Drennen pointed out that the NBC crew was giddy at the prospect that the 2020 Democratic candidate might have been in their presence.
Co-hosts Matt Lauer and Savannah Guthrie sat down with Biden for a lengthy interview that featured questions on everything from gun control to whether the former vice president vents or complains to President Barack Obama when President Donald Trump does things to unravel his legacy.
Instead of an interview, it was billed as an NBC exclusive live event and featured an assortment of questions from audience members as Today co-host Hoda Kotb walked around the crowd with a microphone.
Carson Daly promoted the hashtag #BidenToday, and encouraged Twitter users to chime in with questions of their own.
Biden constantly was set up to either mock Trump or promote himself, with questions such as, What is one thing, if any, that you believe [Trump] is doing well as president?
The former vice president struggled to come up with a specific compliment for the current president but promised, Im not being a wise guy.
Biden also reminded viewers that Hillary Clinton won the popular vote, and was close to winning the presidency.
Lauer ended the exclusive live event by polling the studio audience if it sounds like Biden will run in 2020.
Predictably, the entire audience raised their hands, Drennen wrote.
Despite the enthusiasm, Biden didnt make any sort of announcement.
Next up, Biden and his wife, Dr. Jill Biden, appeared on Megyn Kelly Today where Kelly kicked things off with pre-packaged video detailing Bidens life story.
NBCs newest host eventually read a list of things that Biden critics would say if he decides to challenge Trump for the White House.
He teased the audience by saying the Rust Belt prefers him over Trump, but declined to say if he officially will run for president despite Kellys best effort.
Promise Me, Dad is about Bidens son Beaus tragic battle with brain cancer but viewers should expect questions about the 2020 election whenever he appears on TV to promote it.
Biden will be 75 years old next week, and 77 when primaries begin in 2020.
Fashion designer Karl Lagerfeld is being investigated by French broadcasting watchdogs after some comments he made about immigrants being welcomed in Germany got him in hot water with viewers.
The artist, fashion designer and photographer appeared on the Saturday night talk show in France titled, Salut Les Terriens (Hi, Earthlings), and discussed German Chancellor Angela Merkels decision to open her countrys borders to Syrian refugees and immigrants.
You cannot kill millions of Jews and then take in millions of their worst enemies afterwards, even if there are decades [between the two events], he said on the talk show, per The Times U.K.
The German-born designer apparently took issue with Merkels policy of allowing more than one million asylum within the country since the migrant crisis of 2015.
Merkel had already millions and millions (of immigrants) who are well integrated and who work and all is well, he said on the show, per The Guardian.
She had no need to take another million to improve her image as the wicked stepmother after the Greek crisis.
Lagerfeld, who typically drapes himself in controversy, now has caught the attention of the countrys Higher Audiovisual Council, which says it will investigate the situation as well as the production of Salut les Terriens in full before deciding whether or not to take action.
Early reports indicate that the organization got involved after the station received upwards of 700 complaints about Lagerfelds comments, deeming them insensitive to Holocaust survivors, their families as well as immigrants who have come to Germany since 2015.
As fans and comedians alike deal with the fallout from the recently revealed stories about Louis C.K., the comedian's close friend Marc Maron has revealed that he confronted C.K.
about the rumors of his sexual misconduct, and Maron says the comedian lied to him.
On Mondays episode of Marons famed WTF podcast, he addressed the bombshell New York Times report in which women came forward to say C.K.
masturbated in front of them.
The 50-year-old comedian released a statement to the media apologizing for his actions and confessed the allegations are true.
Maron, who has been friends with C.K.
for years and even appeared on his FX series Louie, opened his show by addressing his friend admission saying that "he did some vile, inappropriate, hurtful, damaging selfish stuff.
The Maron star noted that hed heard about the allegations and even asked C.K.
directly about the rumors.
However, he says that the star lied to him, prompting him to side with his friend on the matter -- until now.
Sadly, I knew what most people knew: There was a story out there, I guess going back several years, there were unnamed people in the story, it took place in a hotel room in Aspen.
It was always out there, but then it would pick up momentum at different times, Maron said.
And I would ask him about it.
I would say, This story about you forcing these women to watch you jerk off, what is that, is that true?
He goes, No, its not true.
Its not real.
Its a rumor.
And I would say, Well, are you going to address it somehow?
Handle it?
Get out from under it whenever it shows up?
No I cant, I cant do that.
I cant give it life, give it air.
That was the conversation.
Maron said the climate in the world of comedy needs to change so women feel comfortable speaking out.
The real problem is that female comics have been hearing about this stuff or a while, and there was no place where they could go with that information, he said.
So, when it comes to believing women, I want to believe women, but in this particular instance, there was no one named in that story.
There was no place for women to go tell this story.
There were no women attached to it.
I didnt know their names until Friday So I believed my friend.
Since the allegations against C.K.
and his admission to misconduct, FX has cut all ties with the comic and Netflix has decided not to produce another planned stand up special from the comedian.
Additionally, his new movie I Love You, Daddy has been dropped by its distributor, The Orchard, which announced on Friday it would no longer be releasing the movie.
On Monday, GQ magazine released its special issue naming former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick Citizen of the Year.
The controversial figure in sports, and the magazine, received a lot of backlash, including a string of tweets from former ESPN reporter Britt McHenry.
On Monday morning, McHenry took shots at Kaepernick on Twitter, arguing that not only is he not worthy of the brand new title, but there were far more respectful members of the NFL worth shining a light on.
McHenry first commented on Kaepernicks previous wardrobe choice that painted police in a negative light.
Wear socks depicting police officers as pigs; wear Fidel Castro as a fashion statement IN MIAMI; sue NFL for collusion when gf compares owners to slave owners Win Citizen of the Year, she wrote.
Serve in the US Military...nothing.
What a joke, GQ.
#Kaepernick.
Later, she highlighted JJ Watt, who raised money for the victims of Hurricane Harvey earlier this year as someone who may be worthy of being recognized as Citizen of the Year.
JJ Watt raised $37 million for Hurricane Harvey victims.
37 MILLION!
But Kaepernick refused to stand for our national anthem (a year ago) and is Citizen of the Year.
Right Kaepernick has said his decision to kneel during the national anthem began as a protest about police brutality in the black communities of America.
Since then, it has ballooned into an issue about free speech, respect for the flag and respect for veterans.
For those who think I dont get the reason for protest youre wrong.
Eagles Malcolm jenkins met with lawmakers to help community.
Dolphins Kenny Stills met with Miami police.
More examples of Citizen of the Year.
Kaepernick has continued his protest, even after not being accepted by any NFL team this season.
As previously reported, in addition to the GQ cover, hes reportedly landed a $1 million book deal.
Mean Girls actor Daniel Franzese went public with accusations of assault and bullying against actress Bijou Phillips whose husband, Danny Masterson, faces rape accusations of his own.
Franzese took to Facebook and wrote in a long post that the mistreatment occurred on the set of their movie Bully.
She body shamed me and ridiculed me about my sexuality and physically assaulted me, Franzese wrote about being on set for the movie released in 2001.
I was scared and closeted and feared for my job.
It started with a lot of eye rolling whenever we spoke but escalated when we did a cast shoot for the poster.
As we were shooting she kept loudly saying Are you gay?!
and laughing while the producers and photographer did nothing to stop her.
[S]he continued to say Are You Gay?!
Like 10 times making sure to be loud enough for everyone to hear I reluctantly told her i was bi, Franzese wrote.
Which at the time was how I was choosing to identify as Q wasnt known to be an option yet and to be honest I dont know that I had many gay experiences at the time my life.
I was an extremely late bloomer.
She cackled and said HA!
Hes bi!
And then when I showed up to work the next day in front of the crew she was screaming Oh look!
The Bi guy is here!
Phillips apologized to her co-star saying she doesn't "remember that time well, those years are a blur."
She told TMZ in a statement, "I was a teenager and reckless in my behavior...I know Daniel to be a trustworthy and honest person, and to find out through social media that I was not the friend I thought I was to him made me so sad."
She also said, "I am so mortified by this behavior and have contacted Daniel and apologized to him privately.
I am not and never have been homophobic.
I have nothing but love for the LGBTQ community and Daniel."
Franzese also said that Phillips, whose father was musician John Phillips, bullied him when he had a shirtless scene: an extremely vulnerable moment for me, he said, calling himself the chubby kid who wore his shirt in the pool.
Later she pulled me aside and said Im sorry if I offended you.
You actually remind me of someone.
She said Carnie Wilson who is in her sisters band Wilson Phillips at the time was well know for her weight issues in the media.
It was meant to be a insult, Franzese added.
She then grabbed my nipple and twisted it hard through my shirt and laughed and walked away.
I stopped talking to her for the rest of filming.
According to The Hollywood Reporter, Franzese said during a later scene, while she was sitting behind him, she kept rubbing her dirty feet on my neck.
I kept swiveling the chair to move away from her and she kicked me as hard as she could in the back of the head.
To this day Im not even sure if she gave me a concussion because I was light headed and dizzy for a while.
A representative for Phillips did not immediately respond to Fox News request for comment.
Phillips is the wife of Danny Masterson, the actor most known for his role as Steven Hyde in the popular series That 70s Show.
Masterson was accused of rape by four women in the early 2000s, allegations which resurfaced last week, Fox News previously reported.
Masterson has denied the accusations against him.
"And the award goes to..." Some of the biggest names in music are expected to attend the 45th Annual American Music Awards on Sunday night.
Read on for more information about the award show, which will take place at the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles, Calif. How can I watch the American Music Awards?
The show will air on Sunday, Nov. 19 at 8 p.m.
ET on ABC.
The AMAs website describes the event as "the world's largest fan-voted awards show."
"American Music Awards nominees are based on key fan interactions as reflected in Billboard Magazine and on Billboard.com, including album and digital song sales, radio airplay, streaming, social activity and touring," a release says.
Who has the most nominations?
Bruno Mars.
The "That's What I Like" singer is up for eight awards: Artist of the Year, Video of the Year, Favorite Male Artist - Pop/Rock, Favorite Album - Pop/Rock, Favorite Male Artist - Soul/R&B, Favorite Album - Soul/R&B, Favorite Song - Soul/R&B and Favorite Artist - Adult Contemporary.
Fans can vote for their favorite nominees in several ways, including by going to VoteAMAs.com.
Who will receive the AMA Lifetime Achievement award?
Legendary R&B and soul singer and actress Diana Ross.
The distinction "is only given to artists who have made truly exceptional contributions to the music industry," the AMAs said in a press release announcing the award.
Who will be performing at the show?
A number of big names -- including Christina Aguilera, Kelly Clarkson, Selena Gomez, Niall Horan, Demi Lovato, P!nk and Diana Ross -- are set to perform.
Gomez will perform her song "Wolves," while Aguilera has a tribute to Whitney Houston and music from "The Bodyguard" planned.
There are also several team-ups set to take place.
Imagine Dragons is expected to perform with Khalid, and Alessia Cara will pair up with Zedd.
Who is nominated for Artist of the Year?
The Chainsmokers, Drake, Kendrick Lamar, Bruno Mars and Ed Sheeran are all up for the award.
Who are the New Artist of the Year nominees?
James Arthur, Niall Horan, Post Malone, Julia Michaels and Rae Sremmurd have been nominated.
Who is up for Video of the Year?
Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee ("Despacito"), Bruno Mars ("That's What I Like") and Ed Sheeran ("Shape of You").
Who is nominated for Collaboration of the Year?
The Chainsmokers featuring Halsey ("Closer"), Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee featuring Justin Bieber ("Despacito"), DJ Khaled featuring Justin Bieber, Quavo, Chance the Rapper and Lil Wayne ("I'm the One"), Maroon 5 featuring Kendrick Lamar ("Don't Wanna Know") and The Weeknd featuring Daft Punk ("Starboy").
Juanita Broaddrick, who accused Bill Clinton of raping her in 1978, blasted comedian-turned-activist Chelsea Handler on Twitter Sunday, quoting a comment the former Netflix star made and saying, I'm sure you don't want to go there.
Handler recently announced that she was giving up her Netflix series to focus on political activism, but many industry insiders suspect her show wasnt going to be around for much longer either way.
She recently mistakenly referred to Rep. Dana Rohrabacher as a woman and received backlash after quickly blaming the GOP for a deadly mass shooting.
This time, Handler thought she had a clever tweet about President Trump but it backfired when Broaddrick caught wind of it.
Handler tweeted, Imagine being molested by an older man.
Then that man denies ever doing it and then goes on and gets elected to United States senate.
What kind of message does that send to young girls everywhere?
And men to all the men who abuse women?
Broaddrick, who is one of many women who have accused former President Clinton of sexual misconduct, noticed the former comedians tweet and quickly responded.
I can imagine.
I was raped by the Arkansas AG who then becomes Governor & President and NBC held my interview explaining the rape until after his impeachment hearing.
But I'm sure you don't want to go there, Broaddrick fired back.
Broaddrick has said that Clinton raped her in April 1978 and that Hillary Clinton intimidated her in an effort to keep her silent about the situation.
She finally gave an interview to NBC in 1999 but the network didnt air it until Clintons impeachment process ended with an acquittal.
Last year, Michael Isikoff, the legendary investigative reporter who uncovered the Monica Lewinsky scandal only to have it spiked by Newsweek, called on NBC to release the full tape of its 1999 interview with Broaddrick who has accused the network of editing out a portion of her interview in which she discussed Hillary Clintons role silencing her and other victims.
Broaddrick and two other Clinton accusers, Kathleen Willey and Paula Jones, participated in a press conference with then-candidate Donald Trump during the 2016 campaign to discuss their past allegations of sexual impropriety against Clinton when Trump was running against Hillary.
Clinton denied Broaddrick's allegation through a lawyer back in the '90s, but that hasnt stopped Broaddrick from trying to hold both Clintons accountable.
I was 35 years old when Bill Clinton, Ark.
Attorney General raped me and Hillary tried to silence me.
I am now 73....it never goes away, Broaddrick wrote in a tweet that is pinned atop her Twitter account.
Veteran Star Trek actor George Takei has vehemently denied allegations that he groped a male model during an encounter in the 1980s, insisting the alleged events simply did not occur."
But in an interview with shock jock Howard Stern recorded just weeks ago, Takei appeared to admit that he had grabbed and groped people in the past, saying he did it to persuade people who were afraid to have a sexual encounter with him.
Former model Scott R. Brunton claimed in an interview with The Hollywood Reporter that he was 23 when he exchanged phone numbers with Takei at a bar, later visiting the actors house for drinks.
He said he grew dizzy and must have passed out, waking to his pants around his ankles and Takei groping him.
He said he extricated himself and left.
Right now it is a he said/he said situation, over alleged events nearly 40 years ago.
But those that know me understand that non-consensual acts are so antithetical to my values and my practices, the very idea that someone would accuse me of this is quite personally painful, Takei tweeted in response to the allegations.
The "Star Trek" star makes regular appearances on radio heavyweight Sterns show, and recently chatted with Stern and co-host Robin Quivers in the wake of the Harvey Weinstein sexual assault scandal.
In a frequently explicit discussion, Stern asked Takei if hed ever grabbed somebody against their will and the actors response made the radio host joke that he might need to call the police.
Below is a transcript: Howard Stern: Did you ever grab anybody by the c--k against their will?
[Very long pause] George Takei: Uhhhh ... uh oh!
[laughter] Stern: Well they were different times, you never sexually harassed anybody... have you?
Takei: [Laughter] ...
Some people that are kind of, um, um, skittish.
Or maybe, uh ... afraid.
And youre trying to persuade.
But, you know ... Stern: Do we need to call the police?
What are you saying, George?
You never held a job over someone if they didnt touch your c--k?
Takei: No, no, no, no.
I never did that.
Thats what this is all about.
Its not about sex, its about power.
Robin Quivers: But you didnt do this grabbing at work?
Takei: Oh no, no, no.
It was never at work.
They came to my home.
Stern: Maybe it was some guy who was hesitating to have sex with you and you gave him a gentle squeeze on the b---s or something?
Takei: ... More than gentle [laughter].
But it didnt involve power over the other.
In a series of tweets responding to Burtons allegation over the weekend, Takei, 80, said that The events he describes back in the 1980s simply did not occur, and I do not know why he has claimed them now.
I have wracked my brain to ask if I remember Mr. Brunton, and I cannot say I do.
This article originally appeared on news.com.au.
Tim McGraw didn't always dream of becoming a country singer.
The Louisiana-native had dreams of playing baseball like his late dad Tug McGraw or perhaps becoming a lawyer.
But when the then-college student picked up a guitar, everything changed.
"That was it.
I was hooked," McGraw said on CBS Sunday Morning.
"And first, because I realized that chicks like a guy with a guitar.
That was probably the main reason that I kept playing."
McGraw was glad he continued his musical efforts adding that music has been life changing for him.
"There are nights when you walk off the stage and you think, I never wanna do that again,'" he said.
"There are those nights.
It happens, where you lay down and you think, Why am I doing this?
Why am I continuing to do this?'"
He added while tearing up, "But look, its been really good to me.
Music has brought me everything good thats happened in my life...it's my savior in a lot of ways."
A pair of ex-U.S. intel bosses is scoring major face time on CNN, but critics -including President Trump - suspect their exposure has more to do with their willingness to criticize the commander in chief than to spill trade secrets.
Former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper is an analyst for the increasingly liberal new network.
His role appears to be simple, as Clapper attacks Trump on a regular basis in segments that can be replayed across CNN platforms throughout the day.
Meanwhile, Obama-era CIA Director John Brennan appears to be angling for a job at the anti-Trump network, as he recently claimed to be proud when personally attacked by the president, who called him a political hack.
Clapper once said Trumps access to the nuclear codes is pretty damn scary and has question his fitness to be in this office.
Clappers latest obsession is Trumps recent conversation with Russian President Vladimir Putin, which the media turned into a microcosm of its obsession over all-things Russia.
Trump recently told reporters that Putin told him he absolutely did not meddle in our election and he did not do what they are saying he did."
It's a boom market on TV for anyone who wants to take a swing at the president.
- Media Research Center Vice President Dan Gainor Trump was simply repeating what Putin told him, but the mainstream media quickly criticized the president for appearing to accept Putin's assurances.
Trump was forced to clarify his remarks, saying he believes that Putin feels that he and Russia did not meddle in the election, not that the White House actually believes him.
Media Research Center Vice President Dan Gainor said the easiest route to appearing on TV -- especially anti-Trump CNN is to bash the president.
It doesn't matter what you will say.
All that matters is the target.
Everything else you have done, everything that might discredit you will likely be downplayed or forgotten, Gainor told Fox News.
It's a boom market on TV for anyone who wants to take a swing at the president.
Trump eventually blasted former intelligence officials who have attempted to dissect every syllable of his comments about Putin, calling them political hacks, but Brennan took it as a compliment.
"He was referring to us as political hacks because he was trying to delegitimize the intelligence community assessment," Brennan said.
"Considering the source of the criticism, I consider that criticism a badge of honor.
Clapper and Brennan appeared together Sunday on CNN"s "State of the Union" for a 16-minute interview seemingly designed to fire up anyone who thinks Russias alleged election interference isnt in the news enough these days.
Clapper and Brennan told host Jake Tapper that Russians dont have good intentions when it comes to the United States and essentially mocked Trump because he didnt publically call Putin a liar.
"The threat posed by Russia, as John just said, is manifest and obvious.
To try to paint it in any other way is, I think, astounding, and in fact, poses a peril to this country, Brennan said.
Clapper claimed that the Chinese and Russians think they can play Trump, while Brennan complained that Trump would attack his critics on Veterans Day and even said the president is intimidated by Putin.
Clips from the "State of the Union" interview were replayed throughout the day on CNN and are embedded in a variety of the networks digital content.
CNN is clearly proud of its ability to get former intelligence chiefs to criticize the president, as the networks website featured two headlines -- leading the homepage political section with quotes from Clapper and Brennan nearly 24 hours after the joint interview.
Baldwins essay begins with a withering description of the television ads he is forced to endure while watching the news ads that aim to sanitize, brighten, straighten, tame and tweak the skin, hair, teeth and bodies of viewers into an impossible standard of perfection that positions the enemy to be, well, nature itself.
The portraits in Nothing Personal present a stark yet authentic counterpoint to the American image of eternal youth and anodyne good cheer.
The books most resonant chords hover at a frequency detected in the balance of Avedons austere minimalism and Baldwins mournful jeremiad.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Only one portrait in Nothing Personal bears a date: Maj. Claude Eatherly, Pilot at Hiroshima, August 6, 1945.
It refers not to when the photograph was made but to when Major Eatherly flew weather reconnaissance over Hiroshima and then gave the O.K.
to drop the first atomic bomb, code-named Little Boy.
Avedon first contacted Eatherly to photograph him in early 1963.
For a long, long time I have felt a connection with you, as have my wife and many of my friends, Avedon wrote to him in Galveston, Tex., because what happened to you is almost like a metaphor of what many Americans feel has happened to them.
Avedon flew to Galveston to make his tightly cropped portrait of Eatherly, brow furrowed and hand cupped over his eye as if to scrutinize the distant horizon.
Photo In a series of museum talks, Colin Westerbeck, the eminent photography historian, argued that Major Eatherly is the central portrait in Nothing Personal, perhaps even in Avedons entire career.
He pointed out the absence of shadow and the blown-out background in Avedons portraiture that left every wrinkle, stubble, wen and nervous tick on his subjects faces strikingly visible.
When that bank of strobes went off in Avedons studio pfoom!
subjects must have felt as if theyd been caught in an atomic bomb blast, Mr. Westerbeck said.
That bomb blast became the signature style with which Avedon went on to create many series of photographs, including The Family, 69 portraits of the most powerful and influential Americans in 1976, published in Rolling Stone for the countrys bicentennial.
His 1985 book, In the American West, consists of portraits of anonymous workers, drifters, cowboys and random citizens made throughout the Western United States over five years, a contrast to the pantheon of accomplishment and celebrity that characterized most of Avedons portraiture.
In conceiving Nothing Personal, Avedon might have had in mind a dialogue with The Americans, by Robert Frank, published five years earlier an artists book that struck a sober note about the story America told itself versus the realities of daily life for its citizens.
At the time, The Americans was little known outside of New York art circles, but the book had a profound influence on photographers including Avedon and on the direction of photography itself.
While Mr. Frank had traveled across the country to capture happened-upon moments in ordinary life, Avedons idiom was the portrait, with which he was equally intent on telling a deeper truth about America.
Implicit in Avedons version was the persistent threat to our existence, something the Cuban missile crisis had brought that much closer two years before Nothing Personal was published.
At the time, Avedon considered the portraits in the book to be some of my very best work.
Photo Yet, to his surprise and chagrin, the public reaction was swift and hostile.
Writing in The New York Review of Books, Robert Brustein lashed out at the books extravagant snow-white covers with sterling silver titles before excoriating the effort in his critique.
(It predated by six years Tom Wolfes incendiary 1970 essay, Radical Chic: That Party at Lennys, in New York magazine a savage takedown of New Yorks intellectual circle of limousine liberals as conspicuous hypocrites.)
Nothing Personal pretends to be a ruthless indictment of contemporary America, Brustein wrote, but the people likely to buy this extravagant volume are the subscribers to fashion magazines, while the moralistic authors of the work are themselves pretty fashionable, affluent, and chic.
Truman Capote came to Avedons defense in a letter to the editors published the following month: Would he rather it was printed on paper-toweling?
Capote asked.
Brustein accuses Avedon of distorting reality.
But can one say what is reality in art?
An artist, to repeat Picasso, paints not what he sees, but what he thinks about what he sees.
This applies to photography provided the photographer is an artist, and Avedon is.
The year before Nothing Personal was published, Avedon had traveled to the South to photograph leaders of the civil rights movement, among them Martin Luther King Jr., as well as those who staunchly opposed it, such as Gov.
George Wallace, of Alabama.
When he returned to New York, he opened his studio to photographers from the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (S.N.C.C.)
to train them to shoot rallies and sit-ins in a photojournalistic style that the mainstream press would publish.
He convinced Marty Forscher, the owner of Professional Camera Repair Service, to donate 75 cameras and a supply of film to the S.N.C.C.
for three years.
In 1965, Visual Arts Gallery, where Avedon was a board member, mounted a show of S.N.C.C.
photographers work.
Photo At DeWitt Clinton High School in the Bronx, Avedon, who was Jewish, and Baldwin, who was African-American, were editors of The Magpie, the schools literary magazine.
They conceived a project with text and photographs called Harlem Doorways that never fully got off the ground.
In later years, Avedon recounted the time as students when Baldwin came to visit him at home on East 86th Street, and the doorman made him use the service elevator.
Avedons mother was furious and summoned the doorman upstairs to apologize to young Baldwin for the insult.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Can Avedons illustrious image coexist with evidence of his social conscience?
It is found throughout his work and in the causes he championed, both publicly and privately.
In 1955, he photographed Marian Anderson, who was performing in Verdis Un Ballo in Maschera, the first African-American soloist to sing on the stage of the Metropolitan Opera.
In the portrait, her mouth is rounded into an oval so expressive that you can almost hear her voice an unusual feat of visual onomatopoeia.
The portrait ran in Harpers Bazaar and Avedon considered its publication his own small stand against racial discrimination.
In 1959, when Avedon first photographed China Machado, a Chinese-born, Portuguese-American fashion model encouraged by Diana Vreeland, the fashion editor of Bazaar the magazines publisher said: Listen, we cant publish these pictures.
The girl is not white.
Avedon was so angry that he threatened to leave Bazaar.
The pictures were published.
Nina Doede, 65, a former financial manager based in New York, experienced the kind of heightened emotional reaction that psychologists have identified as Stendhal syndrome, or hyperkulturemia, an effect caused by aesthetic euphoria.
Standing in front of that painting was a spiritual experience, said Ms. Doede.
It was breathtaking.
It brought tears to my eyes, she added, as she left the sepulchral chamber where the painting is displayed.
Marc Sands, Christies chief marketing officer, said it was the auction houses first-ever use of an outside agency to advertise an artwork.
Sharp-eyed observers noticed that the typeface used for Droga5s online campaign was remarkably similar to the one that promoted the 2006 movie, The Da Vinci Code, based on the best-selling novel by Dan Brown.
Mr. Sands said any similarity was entirely coincidental.
Scholars generally refer to a work by the artist as a Leonardo, but, as Mr. Sands explained, da Vinci has much higher levels of recognition.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The Salvator Mundi is being sold by the family trust of the Russian billionaire collector Dmitry E. Rybolovlev, who bought it in 2013 for $127.5 million and had never exhibited the work in public before now.
The sense that this is rare opportunity to view a Leonardo was heightened in New York, where no museum collection contains a painting by the artist.
The National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., possesses the only example in North America.
The museum paid more than $5 million in a private transaction in 1967 (roughly $36.4 million in todays dollars) to secure Ginevra de Benci, a portrait from the 1470s.
No other painting by the artist has appeared on the open market in the last 100 years.
Its the 16th Leonardo painting, said Dianne Dwyer Modestini, based in New York, who restored the Salvator Mundi.
The painting, showing Christ with his right hand raised in blessing and his left holding a crystal orb, was bought by a dealer, unrecognized, in 2005, in an overpainted and damaged condition.
While Christies claims an unusually uniform scholarly consensus that the painting is by Leonardo himself, some respected experts on Renaissance art who have seen the work failed to succumb to Stendhal Syndrome.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Even making allowances for its extremely poor state of preservation, it is a curiously unimpressive composition and it is hard to believe that Leonardo himself was responsible for anything so dull, wrote Charles Hope, an emeritus professor at the Warburg Institute at the University of London, in his 2012 review of a National Gallery exhibition that included the Salvator Mundi.
Ms. Modestini, the restorer, said in an interview that she hopes the work will ultimately be on public view in a museum.
Its easy to be negative about a damaged picture, and you can argue that a section of drapery might have been painted by a studio assistant, but this should be allowed to live as a Leonardo rather than be someones trophy, she added.
On Wednesday night, auction watchers will find out how many bidders with $100 million to spend have been stirred and their wallets shaken by the Savior of the World.
When did you two first meet?
JON STEWART Hebrew school.
ROBERT SMIGEL Summer camp.
We were in Godspell together.
I think I met you at an S.N.L.
party.
STEWART Those were always the parties that youd walk outside and go, its light again.
SMIGEL The first benefit my wife, Michelle, and I did for NBC was in 2003.
Everybody who does the show, theyre happy to help and Im very grateful.
Jon was really curious, and when I told him why this exists, it was because my son Daniel couldnt get into any kind of school that could help him at that age.
STEWART When you see people that you admire, you have this idea that they can solve anything that comes their way.
To hear about what he was dealing with and how much they had to move heaven and earth, just to get basic necessities, it was shocking.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Are you concerned that the political leanings of some performers Jon, Stephen Colbert, John Oliver might discourage some of the viewers youre trying to reach?
SMIGEL Hopefully people wont take it out on people with autism.
STEWART I didnt like that joke, so this school goes unfunded.
SMIGEL Were going to try not to be too divisive.
Photo Is it harder now to put together a comedy event intended for a wide audience?
Is it possible to be a comedian without a political point of view?
STEWART [old man voice] It was a simpler time.
A movie was a nickel.
A sandwich, they paid you to eat.
Now everything is conflict.
Everything exists now for clicks.
Youre incentivized to pick not just the lowest-hanging fruit but the fruit that tastes the worst.
Because what you want is a reaction, whether it be incredibly positive or incredibly negative.
You cant avoid that that is the world in which this is born, or even a world that we helped create.
Do you think you contributed to that environment?
Do you feel responsible for STEWART For the sad state of the world?
I do, but not for that reason.
I just assume Im always doing something wrong.
Some of it is that the news cycle is so relentless and ubiquitous.
Comedy shows that are promoting more day-and-date stuff have to keep up with that.
SMIGEL Since Jon started, comedy has had to deal with the instant reaction it gets on the web.
What frustrates me is seeing comedy succumbing to that.
A lot of times, jokes now are judged on the target on the point of view, rather than how funny they are.
Has the internet made people quicker to take offense at jokes?
STEWART I dont think theyre quicker to offense.
I think its quicker that you know about it.
The outrage has always been there it just wasnt on your feed.
SMIGEL I did these Triumph specials last year, and by the time the election ended I was just like, Enough.
I was so disgusted by both sides.
I was supporting Hillary, but all she would talk about in emails I would get is that Trump is a misogynist.
No policy stuff.
Just that urge to be divisive and to call the other side names, I was happy to sit it out.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
STEWART Exactly.
Thats our job, to call these people names!
Their job is to take it!
Take an example like Larry Davids S.N.L.
monologue, where he joked about hitting on women at a concentration camp.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story SMIGEL It fit right in with Larrys way of making light of a serious situation.
He was the butt of the joke.
It seemed like a joke that a lot of old Jews would laugh at.
STEWART I did laugh at it.
I am an old Jew.
SMIGEL On the web, a lot of people were defending it.
I thought, O.K., this is good.
People are saying, you can draw a line here, at what you can be outraged by.
What about when the outrage over a misbegotten joke like what happened with Kathy Griffin ends up ostracizing a performer?
STEWART In certain moments it leaves a mark.
You see that it does leave permanent scars in its wake, in very rare instances.
But there was that PR person, Justine Sacco, who had tweeted out a bad joke about AIDS and traveling to South Africa.
By the time she got off the plane, her life was over.
And she was just a civilian in the culture war, to a large extent.
SMIGEL You forget that this person who might have made a mistake on Twitter was maybe not 100 percent evil and worthy of losing everything.
STEWART I think that I contributed to that culture.
I took a long, hard look at that idea of unfairness and context.
I felt like we [The Daily Show] worked really hard to maintain that credibility.
But theres no question that it influenced and partook sometimes in a dehumanizing process.
No question.
Even with situations like Anthony Weiner.
When the pile-on occurs, that person turns into a two-dimensional Flat Stanley, as everybody pounds on them.
And then that person ends up, actually, turning out to be horrible and has to go to jail.
[laughter] Photo Knowing this capacity for outrage exists, are you more wary, as comedians, about what you say in your performances?
STEWART Were not victims of this culture, by any stretch of the imagination, and those comments are the price of doing business in the cultural sphere.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story SMIGEL What bothers me is that temptation to fuel your sides fire; its on both sides, more than ever.
I dont want to be part of that problem.
There was a point where I was like, O.K., this guys been elected.
Now if I keep relentlessly hitting him with my puppet, am I really being helpful?
Or am I just profiting?
For people who dont share your politics and feel alienated by what they see in TV comedy who wish we could go back to a more evenhanded era of Johnny Carson do they have a point?
STEWART Heres what I would say: Tough shit.
Honestly.
The idea that youve lost the pleasure of watching Carson?
We all have lost that pleasure.
I used to like watching Carson, too.
But I think thats a cop-out.
The people that say, This culture isnt for me, live in a nostalgic world.
Those are the people that are the first to tell minorities, Suck it up.
Those are the first people to say to individuals that are being relentlessly either ostracized or legally threatened, Oh, snowflake, watch yourself.
But God forbid somebody doesnt say Merry Christmas.
Its the empty rhetoric of grievance, and I dont feel bad in any way, whatsoever.
SMIGEL Colbert, especially, is hilarious, night in and night out.
Sarah [Silverman]s trying really hard.
Shes doing a show on Hulu where shes really trying to engage with people, and face them as human beings.
I want Colbert to keep doing what hes doing, but I want to see more people make that effort, too.
Because we need both.
Over Thanksgiving in 2014, Biden explains, Beau made it unambiguously clear that he wanted his father to run for president.
This wish was at once selfless and self-protecting: Beau couldnt bear the thought of his illness derailing his fathers political aspirations.
Biden understood this.
He went with it.
The whole family did.
Dreaming of 2016, he writes, sometimes became a kind of performance, a family diversion: It was as if we were all keeping up an elaborate and needful charade.
This charade also happened to suit Biden.
Entertaining a presidential bid during those dark days gave him meaning, a way to defy the fates.
And part of him obviously wanted to run.
Bidens life was full of surreal juxtapositions during Beaus illness.
One minute, he was sitting at his sons bedside in the hospital; the next, he was in a specially designated room nearby, talking to the prime minister of Iraq.
The work focused him, allowing him to contain his feelings.
But those feelings would heave to the surface in private.
On March 29, 2015, as Air Force Two was taking off, he wrote in his diary that he felt buoyed and hopeful.
A few hours later, he added three staccato sentences.
Just landed.
6:07.
I feel so goddam lonely.
Photo These flashes of vulnerability are part of what makes Promise Me, Dad memorable; so, too, are the small, tender interactions between Biden and his dying son.
Guess who was at the office today?
Biden asked Beau one night.
Elton John.
You remember when I used to drive you and Hunt to school?
That song we would all sing together, the three of us, as loud as we could?
Beau couldnt answer by then; he was no longer capable of speech.
But he smiled.
So Biden sang as much of Crocodile Rock as he could remember.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Soon after he was first elected to the Senate in 1972, Bidens wife, Neilia, and 13-month-old daughter, Naomi, were killed in a car accident.
He has a great, unwanted body of expertise in coping with loss.
Promise Me, Dad shows that hes willing to make use of it.
Imparting what he knows about bereavement is part of his legacy now.
He gives his philosophy of the eulogy.
He shares tricks hes learned about how to bear up and survive the earliest days of mourning.
When he speaks at funerals and memorials, he writes, he often gives his private phone number to the grieving.
When youre down and you feel guilty for burdening your family and friends, he tells them, pick up the phone and call.
Some do.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Its to Bidens credit that you dont really question these anecdotes.
He may be a bit excitable, a bit of a windbag.
But anyone whos ever covered Congress (I did, for a while) can discern on the page what was discernible in real life: the bartender aspect of Bidens character, the natural convener who reads customers well enough to put them at ease.
Hes always understood that the political is personal.
Which leads to the inevitable question: Is Promise Me, Dad secretly a campaign book?
The way he repeatedly recounts his accomplishments and expertise certainly suggests hes thinking about a 2020 run, as does the way he finds multiple excuses to invoke his middle-class bona fides.
His advisers, he pointedly tells us, concluded in 2015 that his reputation as a gaffe machine was no longer a liability.
Authenticity matters, one of them wrote.
The suggestion being that hes Trump minus the Trump.
For Biden, the heart of 2015 contained a paradox.
He faced tremendous pressure inside his own home to run for president, for Beaus sake.
But outside his home, the pressure for him to run didnt reach its peak until after Beau died, the very moment he was least able to handle the strains of a national campaign.
Yet that was when many of his former colleagues from the Senate urged him to jump in.
That was when George Clooney got in touch and offered to raise money.
And then Hillary Clinton lost in many of the states where Biden appeared to poll well.
It must have been a powerful formula for regret.
Even if, as Barack Obama suspected, Clinton had the nomination sewn up.
Obama had discouraged Biden from making the leap from the start.
So Biden ends his book outlining the agenda for the 2016 presidential campaign he never ran.
Its an unrealized story, vibrantly alive on the page but not in the world.
Just like Beau.
Its all tied up with Beau.
And I would say, Well, are you going to address it somehow, to handle it, to get out from under it, whenever it shows up?
Mr. Maron continued.
He goes, No, I cant.
I cant do that.
Itll give it life.
Itll give it air.
And that that was the conversation.
The other incidents, how would everybody know about that?
Mr. Maron said larger institutional problems in comedy made it difficult for women to be heard and believed when they spoke of being mistreated by other performers.
He said that he knew Rebecca Corry, one of the women who spoke to The Times, and she couldnt tell me about this.
There was no place for them to go with these stories, where they felt safe to tell them, Mr. Maron said.
I want to believe women, but in this particular instance, there was no one named in that story, he said.
There was no place for women to go tell this story.
There was no women attached to it.
I didnt know their names until Friday.
So I believed my friend.
Photo Separately, Abby Schachner, another of the women who spoke to The Times, wrote in a Facebook post that she forgave Louis C.K.
and accepted what he had said in his statement.
Ms. Schachner wrote: Louis put out a statement, which frankly, made me cry.
It touched me.
And I do feel some of his insights speak to how I felt.
I looked up to the people who recognized my work and made them (sigh), father figures/mentors whether they wanted that role or not.
I shot myself in the foot, protected myself when I needed to be bold, was bold when I shouldve been poised, hid behind ex-boyfriends, excuses, and the excuse of my excuses.
I felt like I disappointed anyone who ever believed in me.
But most of all, I never truly valued myself.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ms. Schachner said that Louis C.K.
did abuse his power.
And yes, obviously he has a glitch, she continued.
But I do, too.
We all do.
Were learning a new language here, and we need to be kind, and we need to be open, and we need to be fair, and we need to listen.
She concluded by writing: I do forgive Louis.
I forgave him.
But most of all, I think its time to forgive myself, too.
Other women who spoke to The Times had different reactions to Louis C.K.s statement.
The comedians Dana Min Goodman and Julia Wolov wrote in a Twitter post, It was a statement not an apology.
Dont get it twisted.
And a woman who worked at The Chris Rock Show with Louis C.K.
when he masturbated in front of her, and who spoke on condition of anonymity, said she also felt his statement fell short.
A real apology would be a personal apology, she said.
Photo Louis C.K.s former manager, Dave Becky, has apologized for not confronting Louis C.K.
after two women said he masturbated in front of them in an Aspen, Colo., hotel room in 2002.
After the incident, the women, Dana Min Goodman and Julia Wolov, began telling others what happened but said they felt threatened by Mr. Becky, who was angered that they were talking about it openly.
I now comprehend that my response was perceived as a threat to cover-up sexual misconduct, Mr. Becky wrote.
This is not an excuse.
What I did was wrong.
Mr. Becky, who also manages Aziz Ansari, Amy Poehler and Kevin Hart, was Louis C.K.s longtime manager until Friday, when his company, 3 Arts, announced it was dropping the comedian in the wake of allegations of sexual misconduct from five women.
The women told of upsetting experiences with Louis C.K.
in a New York Times report on Thursday, and Louis C.K.
has admitted the stories are true.
Here is Mr. Beckys full statement:
This inside-outside dynamic allowed Mr. Sharon, a recent winner of a MacArthur fellowship and the director of productions that have ranged over a train station and in cars throughout Los Angeles, to indulge his passion for staging operas in multiple locations simultaneously.
This time around, as the traditional audience listened to vocalists and members of the Los Angeles Philharmonic in Disney Hall, Ms. Weavers interlocutors and some other instrumentalists were stashed at three locations across the city, where additional crowds could attend, free of charge.
(These exterior sites were chosen from among the locations of this citys Cold War-era, now-defunct air raid sirens.)
Does this concept sound overstuffed?
Initially, at least from inside Disney Hall, it threatened to feel disjointed.
There, Ms. Gosfields thrilling chamber orchestra writing was, by necessity, often cut off by the need to reintroduce Ms. Weavers narrator and her latest bit of news about the alien-induced pandemonium.
Photo Yet the hard-charging first movement, Mercury, was more than capable of standing on its own as a sizzling orchestral piece.
Its references to vintage big-band jazz were refracted through some piercing harmonies.
And the writing for brass instruments often merged seamlessly with buzzing, noisy motifs from the composers sampling keyboard, a vivid instrument of her own design, similarly prominent in some of her earlier work.
By the narrators interruptions during the following movement a witty modernization of a crooner-and-orchestra number the transitions came across as forced and a touch repetitive.
But this early clunkiness abated as soon as Ms. Gosfields music was allowed to merge with the dramatic passages for Ms. Weavers narrator and the various outdoor characters.
One ideal blend came during the operas most memorable aria, sung by the character Mrs. Martinez a witness to the panic outside the hall.
The mezzo-soprano Suzanna Guzmn performed the song at one of the raid siren locations, accompanied by pizzicato bass and a lyrically swooning violin stationed nearby.
The music was relayed to the crowd in Disney Hall as Mr. Sharons staging there brought a visualization of the alien (dubbed La Sirena in the libretto, and sung by Hila Plitmann) being described by Mrs. Martinez.
The collapse of physical distance was simple in design, perhaps, but stunning in execution.
These dizzying shifts in narrative space helped the opera seem like more than just a collection of clever gestures.
Mr. Sharon wrote in a program note that there is no privileged perspective from which to view the production.
But at critical moments, its obviously hard for audience members not to wonder about which position confers the best possible view.
Those unavoidable considerations, in turn, pull the opera away from the comparatively well-trod fake news conceit, and toward a poetic way of exploring how different communities might absorb the same developing news story from different vantages and through different media.
This may sound like a joyless prospect.
But its amazing how quickly the traffic of the stage passes when youre in the hands of expert craftsmen.
Neither Mr. Grahams Labour of Love (at the Nol Coward Theater in the West End) nor Mr. Bartletts Albion (at the Almeida in Islington) is likely to be the work for which either dramatist will be best remembered.
But seen at a moment in which the center of a classically self-contained world no longer seems to be holding, these fraught works exude a paradoxical reassurance.
There is warming solace, after all, in people gathering to hear their collective identity crisis discussed in such well-spoken terms.
(This is true even for uneasy Americans like me, whose own viciously conflicted nation has been keeping them awake at nights.)
Photo Theatergoers here will recognize such plays as part of a long tradition of literary introspection.
It is one that stretches back to at least the days of that other Queen Elizabeth, when Shakespeares characters tear out their hair over their imperiled countrys divisions, and has been sustained by 20th- and 21st-century writers including John Osborne, David Hare and Caryl Churchill.
Whats more, though their subjects may be absolutely of the moment, Labour of Love, an anxious comedy, and Albion, a state-of-the-nation drama, are both old-fashioned in form.
This is not necessarily to be expected of either of their creators.
Mr. Bartlett is the author of the future Shakespearean history play King Charles III; Mr. Graham wrote the interactive Privacy, about reality-fracturing practices in the age of surveillance.
Despite a few postmodern flourishes and some teasing structural game playing, their latest offerings are unlikely to disconcert habitual watchers of Masterpiece television.
Directed by Jeremy Herrin (Wolf Hall, People, Places & Things), Labour of Love is a detailed examination of the history of the British Labour Party.
But wait.
It is also a spirited battle-of-the-sexes comedy in the vein of Much Ado About Nothing and the films that pitted Katharine Hepburn against Spencer Tracy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In this case, though, the salt-of-the-earth Tracy character is a woman, Jean Whittaker, a longtime stalwart of the local party in a working-class mining town.
The patrician Hepburn type is a rising politician, with a public school accent and impeccably tailored suits.
Thats David Lyons (a top-form Martin Freeman, of Sherlock fame).
He has been delivered, more or less by central party fiat, into a safe seat in the constituency where Jean (the wonderful Tamsin Greig) has worked as the office manager for the outgoing member of Parliament (who happens to be her husband).
She has no intention of sticking around.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
But of course she does, and leftist Old Labour (think Tony Benn) butts heads with centrist New Labour (think Tony Blair), amid plenty of sparks and quips over 27 years.
I should note that the play begins on an election night in 2017, when it seems as if David is going to lose, and works backward to the day he arrived to first assume his Parliamentary position in 1994.
Thats the first act, anyway.
The second act reverts to conventional chronology, beginning in 1994 and picking up where each scene in the previous act ended.
The structure embodies the plays central and cleverly executed motif of mirror images.
Im making the plot sound more complicated than it feels.
Interspersed with time-capsule video montages that show the changing faces of British government, the production moves with the barbed breeziness of an Alan Ayckbourn comedy.
Photo Yes, Labour policies, strategies, economics and even iconography are discussed at length.
But as he demonstrated in his gripping parliamentary procedural docudrama, This House, Mr. Graham has a gift for finding the human crackle in ostensibly dry political business.
It is a battle to which Mr. Freeman and Ms. Greig lend a deliciously combustible chemistry.
And though the divided Britain of 2017 inspires lamentations about a party and a nation at war within itself, Labour dares to end on a note of guarded but cheering optimism.
The same can hardly be said of Albion, which is directed by Rupert Goold and stars a splendid Victoria Hamilton (of Netflixs The Crown).
The titular setting is the once magnificent garden of an English estate, long since fallen into disuse and decay.
Albion once belonged to the uncle of Audrey Walters (Ms. Hamilton), the self-made head of a home furnishings empire and a bereaved mother whose soldier son was killed in Iraq.
She is determined to restore it to its former glory.
She is also, of course, hoping to resurrect an England of long ago, of material solidity and a clear-cut social structure.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story It isnt a spoiler to say that this project is inevitably doomed.
An end-of-days tone of Chekhovian melancholy pervades the show from its opening moments.
And Mr. Bartlett borrows unapologetically from both Chekhovs The Cherry Orchard and The Seagull for his portrayal of the characters here.
They include Audreys benignly parasitic husband (an excellent Nicholas Rowe); her best friend, a swaggering and emotionally destructive novelist (Helen Schlesinger); and Audreys dangerously impressionable daughter (Charlotte Hope), who has artistic leanings of her own.
The fact that there is no place in contemporary Britain for the Albion of yore is explored in clashes among classes and generations.
These are enacted in dialogue that, by Mr. Bartletts standards, often feels surprisingly banal, as if recycled from a centurys worth of country house dramas.
But Mr. Goolds production, featuring a deceptively simple design by Miriam Buether, has been most engagingly staged.
(The ways in which the garden comes to life is a marvel.)
And the acting, especially from Ms. Hamilton, is passionate and persuasive.
For all its depiction of a world spinning off its axis, Albion affords the pleasures of a vintage, soul-searching British novel.
In asking the question of who will inherit what remains of the British Empire, it brings to mind one literary classic in particular.
And when I turned on the television the next night, there on the screen was a new adaptation of that very work.
I mean E. M. Forsters 1910 masterpiece, Howards End.
Watching this latest incarnation of one of my favorite books, I found it exasperating, poignant and comforting that more than a hundred years ago, Forster was posing the same questions about his countrys identity and purpose that haunted the plays I had just seen.
The projects that never came to be are equally complex and fascinating, represented by detailed preparatory works including photomontages, drawings, collages and models.
An early rejection was the National Gallery in Rome, which Christo prepared to wrap in 1967.
A collage shows an artfully swaddled facade.
The museums director nearly got permission, said Patricia De Peuter, co-curator of the exhibition.
It was not to be, but a year later, in 1968, Christo and Jeanne-Claude were able to realize their first wrapped building, the Kunsthalle in Bern, Switzerland.
A model, a collage and a drawing by Christo show the plain-looking building transformed into something reminiscent of a finely draped Roman goddess.
Photo Although they are only temporary, the projects cost millions of dollars to carry out.
For the Reichstag, Christo and Jeanne-Claude had to raise $15 million, according to a spokesman from Christos office.
These projects have many dimensions, the artist said, like those required for urban planning of a bridge or skyscraper.
Many people work on building them, like in construction.
If you talk to an architect, you will see almost the same ratio of realized and not realized projects.
Christo has lived in New York since 1964, and the exhibition has several models of projects for the city that were rejected, including ones for the Whitney Museum of American Art (at its old home on Madison Avenue, which is now the Met Breuer), a sculpture garden at MoMA, buildings at 20 Exchange Place and at 2 Broadway, and the former New York Times building at One Times Square.
Other unrealized plans on display include treatments of the Reformation Wall in Geneva; the Teatro Nuovo in Spoleto, Italy (rejected because of fire concerns); and the Ponte SantAngelo in Rome.
A proposal to wrap the trees on the Champs-lyses in Paris was turned down because the city authorities decided instead to decorate the trees with electric Christmas lights, according to the artists website.
Some ideas dont die but find new homes, as the exhibition shows.
A collage shows St. Stephens Green, a park in Dublin, which Christo said was the perfect place for wrapped walkways, an idea inspired by Japanese ceremonial gardens, which Christo and Jeanne-Claude first tried to create in 1969.
But we never succeeded, he added.
Finally, he said, we found Kansas City, and the idea came to fruition in Jacob L. Loose Park in 1978.
The exhibition includes drawings and collages of the artists yellow paths, veering like a runway through the grass.
With that example in mind, could any of the rejected projects be revived?
I would never go back to the skyscrapers in New York, Christo said.
At the moment, I do not want to do buildings.
There are some sites that I could return to.
But I cannot tell you which ones now.
Reviewing an exhibition of Mr. Nagatanis photographs in 2015 at the Griffin Museum of Photography in Winchester, Mass., Mark Feeney of The Boston Globe wrote: To call them photographs seems reductive.
They are variously large, small, in color, black and white, staged, straight, funny, heartbreaking.
The one constant is unpredictability.
Mr. Nagatani combined multiple printing and hand-coloring to push the contours of photography.
In one construction, he compared Hopi dancers to a battery of missiles pointing skyward to contrast modern ideology and tribal myth.
Reviewing Mr. Nagatanis book Nuclear Enchantment in 1991 in The New York Times, Peter B. Hales wrote that his photographic constructions crackle with intelligence and rage.
They are glaringly colored absurdist constructions, Mr. Hales wrote, with all their cracks and props showing, and they seem appropriate to a subject inherently irrational: the history of atomic weapons, their production and misuse, and the vast environmental consequences of modern hubris in bringing the technology into being in the first place.
Patrick Allen Ryiochi Nagatani was born on Aug. 19, 1945, in Chicago.
Photo Before they married, Mr. Nagatanis parents, John Nagatani and Diane Yoshimura, were separately held in detention camps in California and Arkansas after the United States declared war on Japan in December 1941.
They met later in an early-release program in Chicago.
His fathers family had owned a farm in California.
His mother had just graduated from high school when the internment order was issued early in 1942.
His grandfather, who had fought in the Russo-Japanese War of 1904-5 and immigrated to the United States, was also interned.
It broke him, it just broke his physical psychological being, Mr. Nagatani said of his grandfather in a 2007 video interview for the University of New Mexico.
My grandfather left the country and went back to Japan and died a drunk.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story With their young son, his parents moved back to California, where his father became an aerospace engineer in Los Angeles and his mother taught school.
Mr. Nagatani earned a bachelors degree in 1968 from California State University in Los Angeles and a masters in fine arts from the University of California, Los Angeles.
Middle Earth is coming to TV.
Amazon announced on Monday that it has retained the rights to adapt J.R.R.
Tolkiens The Lord of the Rings for television for its Prime streaming service.
The multi-season adaptation will feature new story lines preceding J.R.R.
Tolkiens The Fellowship of the Ring, which is the first Rings book, Amazon said in a statement.
The deal also includes the opportunity to pursue spinoff series.
But it will cost Amazon dearly: Deadline reported that just the rights to the globally popular franchise cost $200 million.
Further details such as what writers, producers or actors would be involved, or when the show might debut have not been announced.
With its fantastical setting and characters, The Lord of the Rings bears a superficial resemblance to HBOs Game of Thrones, currently one of the biggest shows in the world.
(George R.R.
Martin, who wrote the books that series was based on, has said Tolkiens series was an inspiration.)
It is also a proven pop culture commodity.
Collectively the three Lord of the Rings films directed by Peter Jackson grossed more than $2.9 billion internationally.
Photo The TV adaptation will cover different ground, focusing on previously unexplored stories based on J.R.R.
Tolkiens original writings, Matt Galsor, a representative for the Tolkien Estate and Trust and HarperCollins, said in a statement.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The move amounts to a much-needed shot in the arm for Amazon, which has lost several top leaders in the wake of a sexual harassment allegation.
Photo Never doubt Taylor Swift.
That is one lesson from the release on Friday of Ms. Swifts latest album, Reputation (Big Machine), which had a blockbuster start.
Through Sunday, it sold 925,000 copies in the United States, according to early data from Nielsen, which means that in just three days it has already had by far the best opening week of any album this year.
Of that total, just over 600,000 were digital downloads.
But the real question about Reputation was not whether it would be a hit but just how big of a hit it would be, and whether Ms.
Swift would continue to defy the industrys collapsing sales trends by getting her fans to buy the full album as a CD or download.
To nudge her fans in that direction, Ms.
Swift withheld it from streaming services and bundled copies of the CD with $20 magazines at Target.
Most aggressively, she told fans that they could improve their chances of getting a concert ticket by buying multiple copies of the album up to 13 counted as part of the promotion, and all weekend Ms.
Swift retweeted pictures of young fans with their hands full.
David Bakula, a senior analyst at Nielsen, said it was too soon to make a prediction about the weeks total, noting that data from direct-to-fan purchases through Ms. Swifts website or delivered on Taylor-branded UPS trucks was not expected until later in the week.
But Reputation might very well equal or surpass the opening sales of her last album, 1989, which sold 1,287,000 copies in its first week out three years ago.
This shows that there are still artists out there where the album the ownership of the complete package is still the primary driver, Mr. Bakula said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Before Reputation takes over the chart next week, five new albums reached high on Billboards latest Top 10, led by Sam Smith, whose new album, The Thrill of It All (Capitol), opened at No.
1 with 185,000 copies sold as a full album and 65 million streams.
Maroon 5 came in second with Red Pill Blues (Interscope), moving the equivalent of 122,000 sales, and Blake Shelton opened at No.
4 with Texoma Shore (Warner Music Nashville).
Kelsea Ballerini is No.
7 with Unapologetically (Black River), and Kid Rock is in eighth place with Sweet Southern Sugar (BMG).
The long-running art world dispute between Alec Baldwin and the art dealer Mary Boone has been settled, with Ms. Boone paying at least $1 million to the actor and celebrity.
Mr. Baldwin sued Ms. Boone in New York State Supreme Court last year, asserting that he had been defrauded when he purchased a painting from Ms. Boone in 2010.
Photo He claimed that Ms. Boone deceived him by promising a painting, Sea and Mirror, by the artist Ross Bleckner, that had been sold at Sothebys to a Los Angeles collector in 2007, but in fact supplied Mr. Baldwin with another similar Bleckner painting, also called Sea and Mirror.
Photo Mr. Baldwin had paid $190,000 for the painting, but had suspicions when it arrived because it appeared brighter and smelled of fresh paint when he received it.
The case was due to go to trial next year and Mr. Baldwin had contended that Mr. Bleckner had painted it at Ms. Boones request when she was unable to secure the original that Mr. Baldwin sought.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story A lawyer for Mr. Baldwin, Steven N. Feldman, would not detail the settlement but acknowledged a few of the terms.
Mr. Baldwin had been paid a seven-figure sum, he said, plus he will receive two other Bleckner paintings, an existing work and a new painting created by Mr. Bleckner for Mr. Baldwin.
Mr. Baldwin also gets to keep the Sea and Mirror he bought from Ms. Boone.
Ted Poretz, a lawyer for Ms. Boone, declined to comment.
The settlement was first reported by the New Yorker magazine.
Photo Jacob Lawrences parents were two of the millions who took part in the Great Migration, the 20th-century flow of black Americans from the South to the North.
Lawrence was just 23 when he produced his sweeping masterwork, The Migration Series (1941), 60 modernist tableaus depicting the journey and what drove it.
Its a narrative with movement at its core, so it is both ingenious and intuitive to take choreographic inspiration from Lawrences paintings, as the Washington troupe Step Afrika!
does with The Migration: Reflections on Jacob Lawrence.
In its New York premiere at the New Victory Theater, the show uses stepping, tap and other dance traditions to trace a historical arc, from Africa to the post-bellum South to a hopeful new life in the North.
A resilient vitality fuels the production, directed by Jakari Sherman on a set (by Harlan Penn) whose backdrop of screens displays a succession of Lawrences paintings, some fully, others in detail.
The show, though, lacks the propulsive force of Lawrences storytelling.
There is not a weak link in this group of dancers and musicians, and each piece of choreography has merit on its own, but the performances cumulative effect is less than potent.
That may be partly because of Mr. Shermans emphasis on uplift.
In Lawrences paintings, ugliness and danger are inescapable facts of life for black Americans in both the South and the North.
Mr. Sherman acknowledges those somber elements but foregrounds his story with brighter hues in a more impressionistic style.
Photo The show sets expectations high with its powerful start in Drum Call, meant to evoke a long-ago village in Africa.
On myriad drums arrayed across the stage, performers beat a furiously building rhythm, warning of the arrival of strangers ships.
With the complex percussion (arranged by Mr. Sherman) layered on top of W. E. Smiths song African Village, the music is lush, the energy immense.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The show downshifts with Go West: Circa 1890 (choreographed by Makeda Abraham), in which anxiety dissolves into the shared exhilaration of dance; and Drumfolk (choreographed by David Pleasant), about using the body to create rhythm and music at a time when drums were forbidden.
Kinetic excitement returns with Wade Suite, which journeys from spiritual desperation to the sweet succor of salvation.
(Its first movement, The Deacons Dance, is based on a traditional Zulu dance; its second is choreographed by Kirsten Ledford, LeeAnt Noble and Paul Woodruff.)
Fusing gospel music with tap, stepping and gorgeous gumboot dancing, this is movement as communal celebration.
Photo Two photographs by Carolee Schneemann valued at $105,000 were stolen from MoMA PS1 and then returned in the mail.
The photographs were part of the current exhibit Carolee Schneemann: Kinetic Painting.
The museum became aware that the photographs were stolen on Oct. 30.
But four days later, the photographs were mailed back to the museum in a FedEx package, with no substantial damage or explanation, according to the New York Police Department.
On Sunday, the department released footage that it said showed a woman mailing a box containing the photographs from a shipping store in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, and asked for the publics assistance in identifying the suspect.
On Monday, a representative for the Police Department said that no arrest had been made, and that the motive for the burglary was unclear.
The exhibit is Ms. Schneemanns first American retrospective and covers six decades of her art, including her early painting, experimental video work, photography and multimedia installations.
A representative for the museum declined to comment.
Photo Three buses stand on their heads in front of the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin in an installation that recreates a makeshift barricade erected in Aleppo, Syria, in 2015 to protect civilians against snipers during the height of the countrys civil war.
The installation, Monument, by the Syrian-German artist Manaf Halbouni, is based on a picture of the barrier taken by the photographer Karam Al-Masri that was widely shared on the internet at the time.
The site of major political events throughout German history, the gate has a special symbolic resonance for Germans.
It was where the official ceremony to mark the reunification of Germany was held in 1990.
Mr. Halbouni, who was born in Damascus in 1984, told Reuters that he chose to recreate that barricade in that location because the Brandenburg Gate is a symbol of destruction and of the end of war.
It was also a symbol of division, but then came to represent unity, he continued.
Monument, which was presented in Dresden earlier this year, was met with protests from far-right groups there.
In February, demonstrators shouted down the citys mayor, Dirk Hilbert, at a ceremony to unveil the work, which had been installed in front of the Frauenkirche, a large church was destroyed in the Allied bombing of the city in 1945 and rebuilt after German reunification.
According to a report by The Guardian, a news statement from the far-right party Alternative for Germany called Mr. Halbounis work an abuse of artistic freedom and attacked the artist as a rootless wanderer.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Halbouni told the newspaper, I am rootless, in the sense that the war has taken my childhood away from me, by killing or scattering the friends of my youth all over the globe.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Monument is a part of the Berliner Herbstsalon festival, which features work by about 100 artists around the German capital.
The organizers call the festival a rebellion against attributions, generalizations and simplifications.
On his website, Mr. Halbouni wrote that Monument is intended to create a link between the wartime experiences of the Middle East and Europe.
Most unexpected may be Browns many entries about the hazards and psychological challenges of editing while female.
Media reporters and male competitors routinely trivialize her accomplishments.
Never once during her tenure does she work up the nerve to ask for a proper raise, even after Vanity Fair becomes profitable and Harpers Bazaar starts to court her.
(She eventually enlists the help of a superagent.)
Even she suffers from a self-esteem gap.
When Brown was first offered the job to rescue the recently revived (and incompetently revived) Vanity Fair, in 1983, she was just 29 years old.
The magazine was an outpost of confusion in those days, and Cond Nast was a castle of paranoia, its towers filled with schemers hoping to avoid defenestration.
It took a while for Brown to master the politics of this byzantine kingdom, and it took a while for her to arrive at the formula that would ultimately be responsible for the magazines success: A mix of celebrity chronicles, foreign reportage, true-crime stories, profiles of power brokers and extravagant photo spreads all sitting side by side in the back of the same limo.
Photo If these diaries have a theme, its status anxiety.
There was no finer moment than the 80s to explore status anxiety.
The book teems with gossip from that bygone era, with the Kissingers, Reagans and a thousand high-haired socialites in starring roles.
(Along with our current president.
It feels, when you have finished it, as if youve been nose to nose for four hours with an entertaining con man, and I suspect the American public will like nothing better, Brown writes in 1987, having just decided to excerpt The Art of the Deal.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Theres swing in Browns voice and vinegar in her pen.
Walter Mondale is a decent, intelligent, slightly boring fellow who would make an excellent prime minister of Norway.
Michael Huffington, the ex-husband of Arianna, is a tall glass of water with a weak smile.
Almost everything she shares about the Kissingers is perfect.
The best, perhaps: when a friend cattily asks, Have you noticed their dining room is an exact replica of the State Departments?
For legacy-media freaks, The Vanity Fair Diaries is a bound volume of crack.
Tina Browns moment wasnt just predicated on the excesses of Wall Street.
It was predicated on the excesses of the magazine business, of a time when editors still had time and money to burn.
A crisis in Browns world was being seated at the wrong table at the Four Seasons, or being forced to coordinate coverage of Andy Warhols death by speakerphone because the person best suited to do it was off in Gstaad.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Yet after reading these diaries, I still wonder how much of an audience exists for them.
Pages upon pages are filled with stories about dinners with doyennes who, even in their day, were only a big deal in one or two ZIP codes.
Many of its barons are long forgotten, dead or disgraced.
The dish about Cond Nasts kings and queens regnant will be tasty to those who know them, but will anyone beyond their own (dwindling) clan even care?
Tolstoy can ask you to remember hundreds of characters.
I dont think Tina Brown can.
Brown also never satisfactorily reconciles why she wanted to insert herself into the endless cocktail surf of the 80s.
She professes to be an introvert, and she repeatedly laments New Yorks materialism, posturing and social churn.
Yet she often writes these plaintive entries from her beach house in the Hamptons.
Why do I keep seeking out the very things I deride?
she asks.
Her reply perhaps because I was born to chronicle them suggests that large parts of her desires remain unexamined.
She lived and celebrated these values as much as she chronicled them.
Vanity Fairs fifth anniversary party!
she writes on March 1, 1988.
Maybe the best party in Manhattan since Truman Capotes Black and White Ball.
To me, Browns truest and most heartfelt confessions are about her maternal guilt and ambivalence.
Shes beset by fears that her jet-engine work drive will never be compatible with a sane family life.
The weekend was hard, with G her toddler son, George being very difficult and Harry chained to his computer as bloody always, she writes in 1989.
Two workaholics dont make a rightaholic, particularly when it comes to raising kids.
Knowing that her son has Aspergers syndrome Brown has written about it in recent years makes certain entries especially painful.
Gradually, we see her realize that her son is perseverating, mixing uneasily with other kids, missing crucial developmental milestones.
Before hes properly diagnosed, a neurologist chalks up his differences and delays to his premature birth.
Was it my fault for working too hard and long?
Brown asks herself.
Your heart dissolves.
Its so hard to imagine a high-powered father asking himself this same question.
Brown may have been a complicated feminist figure.
But she was also a trailblazer, willing to take risks and get battered and bruised in the arena.
In 1992, she took over The New Yorker and had the temerity to transform it.
She even dared to add photographs.
I hope she also kept a diary during those years.
It was quite a scandale.
Photo Ladies and gents, this is the moment youve waited for, Hugh Jackman sings in the trailer for the P.T.
Barnum biopic The Greatest Showman.
Whether thats true will be determined when this cinematic circus comes to town on Dec. 20, but 20th Century Fox has put together a number of winning elements to hedge its bet on a risky proposition: an original musical period piece.
Mr. Jackmans last movie musical, Les Misrables, opened on Christmas Day 2012 and went on to gross more than $440 million worldwide.
Unlike Les Miz, however, The Greatest Showman is not based on a successful stage show, and its unrelated to the 1980 Broadway hit Barnum.
Instead, the new film features new songs with lyrics by Benj Pasek and Justin Paul, who earned an Oscar for La La Land and a Tony for the current smash Dear Evan Hansen.
Michelle Williams, who stars as Barnums wife, Charity, isnt known for her musical skills but the actress has been nominated for four Oscars, mostly recently for Manchester by the Sea.
The supporting cast also includes a pair of popular younger performers with singing chops, the High School Musical grad Zac Efron and the pop star Zendaya.
With a screenplay by the Dreamgirls and Chicago veteran Bill Condon and Sex and the City alum Jenny Bicks, The Greatest Showman projects a message of inclusion that may resonate with contemporary audiences.
They dont understand yet, Barnum tells a bearded woman played by Keala Settle (a Tony nominee for Hands on a Hardbody, from 2013).
One can only hope he film doesnt prove the most famous aphorism attributed to Barnum: Theres a sucker born every minute.
Photo LONDON What are the first things that spring to mind when you think of the north of England?
The Beatles, cobbled streets and Manchester United?
1990s rave culture, rain and feisty women with fake eyelashes and bouffant hair?
The part of the country that last year voted solidly for Britain to leave the European Union?
Few geographical areas have had the same outsize impact on popular culture and artistic imaginations as this small region, framed by Scotland, Wales, the North Sea and a hotly contested southern border.
And that is made clear in a new exhibition, North: Fashioning Identity, which opened Nov. 8 at Somerset House.
The show explores representations and stereotypes of the North (as it is known in Britain) and Northerners through more than 100 photographs, garments, films and works of art.
They range from pieces by the fashion designer Paul Smith and the photographer Alasdair McLellan, both of whom were born in the region, to designs by those who simply could not shake its influence.
Photo The North feels very familiar to people who have never actually visited it; they can connect to certain visual codes or motifs, or the individuals or songs from the region that contributed to the formative experiences of their youth, said Lou Stoppard, the co-curator of the exhibition.
She referred to parkas by the Belgian-born Raf Simons that feature prints by Peter Saville, the art director of the independent Factory Records company in Manchester (he also designed album covers and posters for Northern bands like Joy Division and New Order).
And designs by Virgil Abloh, the founder and creative director of Off-White, were inspired by the Manchester megaclub Hacienda.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Raf came from small-town Belgium and Virgil from the outskirts of Chicago, so both know what it feels to live outside cultural epicenters like London or New York when you are young, Ms. Stoppard said.
For those who come from Northern England, or anywhere else in that vein, there is a shared sense that in order to be noticed, you have to work that much harder, be that much tougher.
Much of what fuels the North-South divide in this country comes from the nonchalance and entitlement of London.
Photo The show, which first opened in February at the Open Eye gallery in Liverpool, was initially inspired by a resurgence of media interest in work that explicitly referenced Northern England and the realities of life in the mid-2000s, alongside the rise of Northern-born models like Agyness Deyn.
But, said Adam Murray, a lecturer at the Manchester School of Art and Central St. Martins, who curated the exhibition with Ms. Stoppard, events like Britains decision to leave the E.U.
have prompted fresh contemplation of what the North means to the country.
Photo HBO and PBS honor Veterans Day with two new documentaries.
And the wildly imaginative comedy Ill Behaviour arrives on Showtime.
Whats on TV WAR DOG: A SOLDIERS BEST FRIEND (2017) 8 p.m. on HBO; also on HBO streaming platforms.
Directed by Deborah Scranton (The War Tapes), this new documentary looks at the bond between Special Operations soldiers and the K9s that serve them in combat.
Three soldiers recount how their loyal, four-legged partners stood by their side on the battlefield and provided emotional support during the darkest times.
PARADISE RUN 7 p.m. on Nickelodeon.
Set in Hawaii, this game show pits pairs of young contestants against each other in grueling competitions.
MAN WITH A PLAN 8:30 p.m. on CBS.
Matt LeBlanc dips his toes into hands-on parenting in this family sitcom.
Mr. LeBlanc plays Adam Burns, a contractor who gives up his role as Daddy Fun Times to become a stay-at-home dad after his wife, Andi (Liza Snyder), returns to work.
Adam a beer-loving mans man struggles with his new role but finds his way.
The sitcom has its amusing moments, but its premise is a tad outdated, James Poniewozik wrote in The New York Times.
In this second-season premiere, Andi becomes jealous when her daughter Kate (Grace Kaufman) turns to the familys new babysitter for advice.
Even worse, the attractive hire has her eyes on Adam.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story ALMOST SUNRISE (2017) 10 p.m. on PBS (check local listings).
Two Iraq veterans, Tom Voss and Anthony Anderson, decide to come to terms with their wartime memories by walking from Milwaukee to Santa Barbara, Calif. Their symbolic trek was an attempt to overcome their moral injury, which this documentary defines as a wound to the soul, caused by participation in events that violate ones deeply held sense of right and wrong.
The 2,700-mile journey also helped raise funds for a veterans gathering place in Milwaukee.
Photo ILL BEHAVIOUR 10:30 p.m. on Showtime.
This new dark comedy series imagines just how far some would go for the ones they love.
When Charlie (Tom Riley) announces he has cancer but is opting for natural healing remedies instead of chemotherapy, his best friend, Joel (Chris Geere), wont have it.
With the help of his college friend Tess (Jessica Regan), Joel kidnaps Charlie, locks him in a basement and has an oncologist (Lizzy Caplan) administer chemotherapy against his will.
Whats Streaming Photo ALIBI on Acorn TV.
The infallible drama fodder of betrayal, love and murder gives this mini-series its edge.
Written by Paul Abbott (Shameless), the thriller stars Michael Kitchen as Greg, a neurotic implicated in murdering his business partner.
Marcey (Sophie Okonedo), a waitress at Gregs wedding anniversary party, discovers Greg handling a corpse and helps him cover up what he claims was an accident.
Marcey connects some dots and wonders if Greg can be trusted.
Photo Season 8, Episode 4: Some Guy The ambiguous conclusion of last weeks episode left the fan favorite Ezekiel in dire straits, as his loyal subjects dove to protect him from a hail of gunfire.
I wrote, in my recap, of my concerns about the shows habit of playing it fast and loose with gotcha non-deaths, as well as about the hazards of eliminating a valuable force for positivity on such a bleak program.
From this sticky narrative wicket, this weeks episode nimbly spins a cohesive and affecting story that places a standout supporting player in a well-earned spotlight.
Ezekiels flame of hope does, indeed, get extinguished.
But first, the episode earns that withering defeat.
Narrowing the focus to a single character seems to grant the writers a clarity of purpose.
From his earliest introduction, Ezekiel has projected a refreshingly unbothered confidence, as epitomized last week and repeated here with his and yet, I smile speech.
This episode quietly observes Ezekiel in flashback as he ritualistically prepares to greet his subjects, carefully going through the routine of washing himself, trimming his haggard beard and individually hand-rolling each dreadlock.
Hes the model of composure, and this hour embarks on a search for the man behind the reassuring grin and the hearty laugh.
A strong match cut, which goes from an image of Ezekiel at the center of a group huddle among his trusting militia to an image of him buried under their corpses introduces the survivors guilt that will plague the King through this episode and ultimately break him.
The episode continues to crosscut between the Kingdoms preparations for their offensive and Ezekiels desperate scramble to stay alive after it goes belly-up, creating a contrast between the faith they put in him and his self-loathing over having betrayed it.
He believes that a ruler and his subjects are bound by a sacred pact, in which he exchanges his protection for the masses support.
In this sense, hes failed them, and his memories of the heartfelt goodbyes between the soldiers and their stiff-lipped wives confront Ezekiel with the emotional ramifications of his shortcomings.
Nursing a broken ankle and running out of options to evade the approaching zombie horde, Ezekiel appears to done for.
But hes saved by his loyal knight Jerry, in more ways than one.
Although Jerry ferries him to safety, even as the King demands to be cut loose and left for dead, Jerrys most meaningful service to his liege is to reshape the way he thinks of his own role.
Simply by stating, We needed you, Jerry communicates that Ezekiels value has always been more symbolic than anything else.
Ezekiel provided a beacon around which an otherwise disorganized rebel force could rally.
Nobody in the Kingdom really believes that Ezekiel comes from a royal lineage, but because charismatic leaders have a way of strengthening the people in their immediate proximity, the lie proves productive for all parties involved.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ezekiel sees himself as the fraud that his Savior captor makes him out to be: Hes a former zookeeper with delusions of grandeur and one obedient tiger.
Its true that he has consciously assumed a role divorced from his deepest self; listen to how his throaty tone of voice and ornate manner of speaking fade away in the final minutes as he stammers, I aint I aint nobody.
Then theres the conversation between Lorca and Stamets near the end of the episode in which Lorca approvingly says, Youve opened the door to a whole new era of exploration.
There has been no indication that Lorca has any interest in this.
(A side note: Anthony Rapp plays his fourth version of Stamets here.
Previously, weve seen Grumpy, High, Exuberant and now, Rational Stamets.)
Jason Isaacs was a compelling choice to play Lorca and hes done the best he can with the material hes been given.
The show, at some point, is going to have to make a decision as to who Lorca is.
The rest of the episode had its problems too.
Lets pause and quickly discuss Burnham and Tylers mission to place sensors on the Klingon ship.
The Klingons have to decloak to fire on Discovery, so their shields are down for a split-second, allowing Burnham and Tyler to beam over.
Why do they have to transport over to place the sensors?
Why not just beam the sensors over directly after activating them on Discovery?
And to make the Klingons seem even more incompetent, somehow the Klingons dont detect that two humans have beamed on their ship.
It was always unclear how Kol was able to amass so much support for a war that he himself seemingly had no interest in early on.
And yet, after his ship is destroyed, Lorca is told by his superiors, The war is not won yet.
Why?
The Klingons best ship and their leader was just killed.
TKuvma was killed.
Kol didnt seem like he had much of a second-in-command.
Who will be our next underdeveloped villain?
What worked 1.
The universal translator The writers found a nifty way around having the Klingons speak their native tongue.
It solved a problem the show had created by making subtitles a prominent guest star of any episode featuring Klingons.
This marked the rare occurrence in which I was interested in what Kol had to say.
Of course, he was killed off shortly after, but hey.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
2.
The battle Impressive work here by the director Chris Byrne.
In many Star Trek episodes, battle scenes somehow manage to make the Starfleet ships look weak.
This happened all the time in The Next Generation.
And in Generations, the first big screen foray of Captain Picard and his crew, the Enterprise-Ds shields go down almost immediately thanks to an old Klingon Bird of Prey.
In Nemesis, the Enterprise-E is barely a match for the Scimitar.
Here, we were shown the title ships true prowess.
What didnt work 1.
The Cloak foil Continuity within the Star Trek universe has been broken repeatedly over the past several decades.
As Ive written previously, some TV series have been more blatant than others when it comes to this.
(Why do the Borg appear on Enterprise?)
That the Discovery crew was able to figure out a way to circumvent a cloaking device, when Picard and the Enterprise were unable to do so centuries later, didnt make any sense to me.
2.
LRell As with Lorca, the show doesnt seem to know what to do with LRell.
It is unclear to me why Kol didnt kill her as soon as he thought he was being deceived.
He exiles her to a room with a bunch of dead Klingon corpses, so its not like Kol has any qualms about that stuff.
And after teeing up LRells apparent willingness to desert last week, it seems odd that we wouldnt have seen some conversation between Cornwell and Lorca.
But then again, Tyler still might be a spy more on this in a second.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Is Tyler a spy?
That second is now.
Tyler seems to put all the spy talk to rest.
He is frozen by the sight of LRell and seems to experience serious post-traumatic stress.
Or does he?
Are those flashbacks of torture or changing his physical appearance?
He also seems to have flashbacks of LRell sexually assaulting him.
Or was it actually consensual and this is our old friend Voq?
And theres that weird scene in the brig.
Im not sure of what the endgame here is for LRell.
Im also not convinced I care given how little we know about any and all Klingons in this show.
Did you catch that?!
The callbacks have lessened in recent weeks, but I will say that the next episode looks like it will be a Voyager- type story arc, where the ship finds itself far from home.
Thats it for us until the show returns in January.
Thanks for following along so far.
Photo Season 3, Episode 9: The Doldrums After racing through 20 years of separation, Outlander spent three episodes setting up all of the issues underlying Jamie and Claires reunion.
With this weeks episode, the season undergoes a literal sea change by lifting them out of any familiar ground and stranding them on a boat to the West Indies a bottle episode on open waters.
And as with many bottle episodes, its a chance to take stock of whats working this season and what isnt.
The strongest element of this episode is Claire, whose lingering doubts about how to reconcile with Jamie make a nice counterpoint to her easy assurance as a physician.
Even her voice-over is revealing: Of the pleasant early days on the ship, she says, It reminded me of a simpler time.
But because nothing shes experienced has been remotely simple, were left to wonder what sort of story shes trying to tell herself.
(Perhaps she longs for another group of allies as loyal as that first Highland clan?
Shes beginning to seem overwhelmed by the sheer number of supporting characters coming through the shows revolving door.)
Also effective is the ship itself.
Director David Moore makes us feel the claustrophobia sailors crowding the frame, low ceilings, dark rooms, punishing sun and the wide, blank sea.
The superstitions that Claire initially laughs at take on a sinister edge as we realize the truth underneath them: Facts lose their power when youre desperate.
By the time the sailors start muttering about throwing someone overboard, everything in the frame is designed to enhance the sense of the ship as a pressure cooker.
And speaking of desperate, Jamie and Claire are trying to regain some equilibrium even in the middle of the chaos.
Theres plenty to draw from, given the rift last episode in fact, its deeply unsatisfying how fast they smooth things over.
Either Jamie and Claire are trying too hard to put these problems aside, or the show doesnt like too much conflict between our lovers.
(And as is becoming typical of the season, other subplots boil over before we get a sense of which one it is.)
Still, we get a few much-needed moments of Claires missing Brianna and trying to reconcile the world she left behind with this world in which shes still uncertain.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Which brings us to Mr. Willoughby.
Since his inauspicious introduction, Willoughby has been portrayed as a capable, unassuming background character waiting for his moment to shine.
This was, apparently, that moment.
The trappings around him, however the vaguely-Asian flute music that accompanies his scenes (a rare misstep from composer Bear McCreary), his water calligraphy, the acupuncture were so stereotypical that his life story would have had to be something special to get out from under the weight of those broad strokes.
It was not.
Her style was not the intimidating jugular attack of columnists who expose intimacies or misdeeds in the private lives of public figures, thriving on Schadenfreude and sometimes damaging reputations.
Nor, for the sake of a titillating item, did she seize upon ugly rumors or tasteless embarrassments.
On the contrary, Ms. Smith offered a kinder, gentler view of movie stars and moguls, politicians and society figures.
And gossip was hardly the only ingredient of her columns: They were sprinkled with notes on books or films, bits of political commentary and opinions about actors, authors and other notables.
She often inserted herself into stories.
Explaining why Madonna had become a regular in her columns, Ms. Smith wrote in 2006, I didnt always agree with what she said, or what she did, but the hysterical overreaction to her caused me, if not to defend her, then at least to put a more balanced perspective on her astonishing ongoing saga.
If her columns lacked edge, they provided something more: the insiders view.
Many of those she wrote about became her friends, people she genuinely liked and who liked her.
She lunched with them, partied with them, vacationed with them and shared their successes and travails.
And they trusted her, knowing she would not trash them in print.
But journalisms watchdogs accused her, with some justification, of conflicts of interest, of lacking objectivity and distance from those she wrote about.
The Village Voice, Spy magazine and other publications made her the butt of satires, portraying her as an egocentric, mistake-prone partisan, using columns to promote her friends.
Photo Its a valid criticism, I suppose, Ms. Smith said in a 1991 interview with The New York Times.
But I dont know what to do about it.
I dont have to be pure, and Im not.
I mean, I am not a reporter operating on life-and-death matters, state secrets, the rise and fall of governments, and I dont believe you can do this kind of job without access.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mary Elizabeth Smith was born in Fort Worth on Feb. 2, 1923, the daughter of Sloan and Sarah McCall Smith.
Her father was a cotton broker whose gambling problems and fading income during the Great Depression forced the family to sell their home and move.
Her parents paid bribes to keep her in her old school, but it left her a painfully shy outsider.
I grew up with all these little rich kids, she recalled.
I didnt have a dime.
I couldnt face that.
I was always a horrible little social climber in my way.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Movies provided an escape.
She adored Tom Mix, Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire and dreamed of a career somewhere in the orbit of stars.
After high school, she attended Hardin-Simmons University, a Baptist-affiliated college in Abilene, Tex., and met George E. Beeman, whom she married and later divorced.
She leaves no immediate survivors.
Ms. Smith studied journalism at the University of Texas and, after graduating, moved to New York in 1949.
She took a series of jobs at Modern Screen magazine, at Newsweek and as an assistant to Kaye Ballard, the actress and singer.
In 1953 Ms. Ballard took her on a national tour with the Broadway company of Top Banana, a musical comedy that starred Phil Silvers.
Back in New York, she worked for Mike Wallace at CBS Radio and Dave Garroways Wide Wide World on NBC-TV.
Photo In 1959, Igor Cassini, who wrote the Cholly Knickerbocker gossip column for The New York Journal-American, hired her to interview celebrities at nightclubs and to write the column during his vacations.
In the 1960s, she was married for several years to Fred Lister, a travel agent.
They had no children, and that marriage also ended in divorce.
Ms. Smith developed ideas for Allen Funts television show Candid Camera; wrote for Ladies Home Journal, Vogue, Sports Illustrated and other magazines; and was entertainment editor of Cosmopolitan.
Besides her columns for The Daily News, Newsday and The New York Post, she worked for many years as a commentator for WNBC-TV in New York as well as for the local Fox channel and E!
Entertainment Television.
Long before her Liz Smith column ended in The Post in February 2009 after being cut to three times a week in 2008 newsprint gossip columns had been migrating to the internet and its ever-expanding blogosphere, an ideal format for rapier thrusts at celebrities, often delivered anonymously and with little regard for truth or consequences.
Ms. Smith was also a founder and former part owner of the website wowOwow.com, aimed at women 40 and older.
And she still had plenty else to do, writing for news syndication, Daily Variety and Parade magazine, a Sunday supplement in hundreds of newspapers.
In 2005, she published a book of reminiscences and recipes, Dishing: Great Dish and Dishes From Americas Most Beloved Gossip Columnist, a serving of celebrities garnished with favorite foods.
Photo Her 2000 memoir, Natural Blonde, a best seller for months, was a breezy compendium of tales about Rock Hudson, Richard Burton, Joe DiMaggio, Sean Connery, Frank Sinatra, Katharine Hepburn and others nothing very scandalous.
Reviewers chastised her for not sharing intimate details of her relationships with women, including the archaeologist Iris Love, with whom she lived for many years.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But her work was praised.
Her brand of gossip is the old-fashioned kind, not the embarrassing or repulsive stuff dug up by so many of her journalistic colleagues, Jane and Michael Stern wrote in a review for The Times.
When she escorts us into the private lives of popular cultures gods and monsters, its with a spirit of wonder, not meanness.
A lot happens in the movie, which repeatedly circles back to the question of whether its possible to separate the artist from the art, a question that some are asking now of Louis C.K.
For Glen, this takes on extra urgency when China begins an undefined relationship with Leslie, who showers her with attention, shopping with her and sweeping her off to Paris.
The first time they talk at length, Leslie even defines radical feminism for China, a scene that mirrors another in which Glen delivers a more generalized feminist lesson.
Men explaining equality to a young woman is one provocation; another is that Grace defends sexual relations between teenage girls and adult men.
The other sustained provocation is that I Love You, Daddy is partly about the Woody Allen Problem.
The films black-and-white cinematography is an obvious reference to Mr. Allens oft-celebrated 1979 film Manhattan, in which he plays a comedy writer having an affair with a 17-year-old girl.
The title I Love You, Daddy refers to Chinas repeated declaration to Glen, but it also seems like a nod at Mr. Allens expansive influence on comedy.
Louis C.K.
himself has been compared to Mr. Allen and he appeared in Mr. Allens 2013 drama Blue Jasmine.
Hes a very big deal in my life, Louis C.K.
said of being cast in that movie.
Since I was a little kid, I loved Woody Allen.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Has that love soured?
Did it sour in 2014, when Mr. Allen was accused by his daughter, Dylan Farrow, of sexually molesting her?
However starkly confessional I Love You, Daddy sometimes registers as, it can also be seen as an act of symbolic patricide, a way of addressing a tarnished idol.
Shortly before it ends, China turns 18 and offers herself to Leslie, who for the first time seems uninterested in her.
Perhaps thats meant to suggest that he doesnt actually seduce girls or that China, at 18, is now too old for him.
Your interpretation may vary, though its worth noting that Leslie later enthuses about how wonderful it is to be loved by a girl and then be rejected by the woman she becomes.
The line reminds me of one that Mr. Allens character, Isaac, tells the now 18-year-old former girlfriend, Tracy (Mariel Hemingway), toward the end of Manhattan: I just dont want that thing I like about you to change.
Its unclear what he means (her beauty, her youth), though earlier Isaac tells Tracy after passionately kissing her while theyre out one night in a horse-drawn carriage that shes Gods answer to Job and would have ended all argument between them.
God, Isaac says while pointing a finger at Tracy, would have said, I do a lot of terrible things, but I can also make one of these.
I was 18 when I saw Manhattan and I despised it because I knew that its reveries were built on a lie that few adults, including film critics, seemed willing to acknowledge.
Perhaps thats partly why I appreciated I Love You, Daddy the first time I saw it.
Louis C.K.
seemed to be pointing at Mr. Allen with a queasy homage that was getting at the truth of Manhattan even as I Love You, Daddy circled and circled its own creators complicity in female exploitation.
The two ideas converge late in the film when Glen meets Leslie, who reveals that he hasnt seen China in a long time.
Thats when Leslie dreamily shares his philosophy about loving girls only to be rejected by the women they become.
Its an unnerving scene, one that doubtless speaks to how some men view women, but it also speaks, I think, to how the movies see women.
How they use and use up young women, at least until they turn 18 or 20 or so when some moviemaker or some suit deems her no longer desirable and turns her putative lack of desirability on her, as if she were responsible for this lack of interest in her.
When I watched I Love You, Daddy a second time, the jokes no longer landed; its shocks felt uglier, cruder.
But for once a filmmaker seemed to be admitting to the misogyny that we know is always there and has often been denied or simply waved off, at times in the name of art.
The revelations about Louis C.K.
and others are killing any pretense that any of this is objective.
Its very personal, and it always has been.
Photo LOS ANGELES Score two for old-fashioned star power.
A pair of new wide-release movies, Daddys Home 2 and Murder on the Orient Express, both of which rely on starry ensembles, arrived to stronger-than-expected ticket sales in North American theaters over the weekend.
Although neither could topple Thor: Ragnarok, which remained No.
1 for a second week, the sturdy results for Daddys Home 2 and Murder on the Orient Express gave Hollywood hope that its formulas may not be as broken as many had started to believe.
Thor: Ragnarok (Walt Disney Studios) collected an estimated $56.6 million, for a two-week domestic total of $211.6 million, according to comScore, which compiles box office data.
Disney said the Marvel-branded superhero movie has now taken in $650.1 million worldwide.
Second place went to Daddys Home 2, which took in about $30 million, or roughly 20 percent more than analysts had expected before release.
On the downside, the PG-13 comedy was expensive, costing about $70 million to produce.
Daddys Home 2, starring Mark Wahlberg, Mel Gibson, Will Ferrell and John Lithgow, received poor reviews but clicked with audiences, who gave it an A-minus grade in CinemaScore exit polls.
More than 50 percent of the audience was over age 35.
Photo Even so, it will take much more than one box office win to stabilize Paramount, which has suffered a string of misfires, including Suburbicon, Mother!, Monster Trucks and Baywatch.
Last week, the studio, which ranks last among Hollywoods major studios in domestic market share, parted ways with its marketing and distribution chief.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story A glossy remake of Murder on the Orient Express (20th Century Fox) was third, with ticket sales of about $28.2 million, or 30 percent more than analysts had expected.
Murder on the Orient Express, starring and directed by Kenneth Branagh, who was joined on screen by Judi Dench, Johnny Depp, Penlope Cruz, Daisy Ridley and others, received mixed reviews and a B grade in CinemaScore exit polls.
Fox said that 35 percent of the audience was over 35.
And she has embraced the flawed but powerful title character she currently plays on the Netflix superhero drama Jessica Jones, a detective fighting to take charge of her life while she tends to some deep psychic wounds.
Bonfire, which was published by Crown Archetype earlier this month, is Ms. Ritters fictionalized dive into her own rural upbringing and a thriller in the style of her favorite genre novels.
In a review, Publishers Weekly called it a triumphant fiction debut and a pulse-pounding thriller featuring a sympathetic, broken lead character.
But Ms. Ritter said she also considered the novel an act of pure defiance: a narrative she wants to see more of, featuring a female protagonist she relates to, made at a time when she was disappointed with other acting opportunities that were offered to her.
Photo Im not conventional, Ms. Ritter said over a recent lunch in Williamsburg, Brooklyn.
I try to be raw and vulnerable and gross.
The novel, she said, was a way for me to create something for myself to take the story back and do what I want to do.
The protagonist of Bonfire is Abby Williams, an environmental lawyer in Chicago who returns to her modest hometown of fictional Barrens, Ind., to investigate a case against Optimal Plastics, a conglomerate intertwined in seemingly every aspect of the community.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story There, while Abby is reacquainted with all that she loved and (mostly) hated about living there, she is drawn back into an unsolved mystery from her high-school days, 10 years earlier, when a group of her teenage tormentors were beset by an unexplained sickness and one of her mean-girl rivals went missing.
Ms. Ritter, 35, who came of age in the small borough of Shickshinny, Pa., said her ambition was to bring to life a twisted backwoods setting where the party that you go to on Friday night is a bonfire, and the district magistrate is putting people in juvie when hes out smoking weed with kids on the weekends.
Some of the most evocative passages in Bonfire are about Abbys awkward return to Barrens, a town she thought she outran.
There, Ms. Ritter writes, beauty works by sidling up to you when you least expect it and an unappealing childhood home seems to rush toward me and not the other way around.
Like its eager to get me inside.
Like its been waiting.
Ms. Ritter did not have a high-school experience as brutal as Abbys but, she said, I understand the feelings of being the outcast and the loner.
In her early teens, she came to Shickshinny as an only child raised by a divorced mother, traits that she said made her a prominent target for whispers and rumors.
At that time, where Im from, nobody got divorced yet, she said, so everybody was like: Psst, psst, psst.
By the time she graduated high school, she was modeling extensively in New York, Tokyo and Milan, but craving work as an actor, producer and musician.
She has since found those opportunities on shows like Breaking Bad and the teenage noir Veronica Mars, as well as in projects she has developed with her production company, Silent Machine.
Photo Gren Wells, a screenwriter, director and friend of Ms. Ritters, described her as psychotically driven, in the best way.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In this industry, you have to be a self-starter and make your own career, Ms. Wells said.
Shes not the type of actor who sits around and waits for a phone call.
She will create her own product.
Ms. Ritter said she placed particular value in her experience on Jessica Jones, based on that Marvel heroine, a wisecracking private investigator still coping with the trauma of a villain who invaded and took over her life.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
It wasnt until after the show came out, she said, that real women on the street would tell me how Jessica Jones changed their lives how it helped them deal with their own past sexual trauma.
After several of those interactions, Ms. Ritter said, I started to think in different terms.
It made me want to be even better.
It made me want to give it all.
Ms. Ritter was already committed to playing the Jessica Jones character in another Netflix series, The Defenders, and while she waited for it to start shooting, she was dismayed with the film roles she was being offered in the meantime: sundry strippers and wives of husbands who were like my dads age, she said.
No, I dont want to do that, she said.
Thats not what I want to put into the world.
Instead, Ms. Ritter spent several months writing Bonfire at her home in Los Angeles, putting meat on the bones of an idea she originally had for a possible TV series.
Her writing process, Ms. Ritter said, looks like me pacing around in flannel pajamas with a pot of coffee, jotting things down by hand.
On any given day, she said, if you checked my pedometer on my phone, I probably walked 10 miles, back and forth in my home.
When Ms. Ritter would run into creative roadblocks, Ms. Wells said, They would last no more than 24 hours, because she didnt have time.
She was trying to finish this before starting on The Defenders, so she had a hard deadline.
Photo She might allow herself a few hours to knit or take a walk, Ms. Wells said, and then she was back off to the races.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Melissa Rosenberg, the creator and show runner of the Jessica Jones TV series, said that she saw similarities in how Ms. Ritter approached her acting work and the writing of Bonfire.
Krysten really works from the inside out, Ms. Rosenberg said.
She cares about the internal workings of a character how does this person move or talk?
and that informs the world they inhabit.
As an actress and a writer, how shes bringing an audience into her experience through the various choices she makes, which are sometimes just incredibly subtle.
What Ms. Ritter and Jessica Jones share, Ms. Rosenberg said, is a sense of humor: Jessicas is a bit darker, on an ongoing basis, she said.
Shes more about a one-liner and a wry look.
Krysten laughs loud and she laughs easily.
Jennifer Schuster, the executive editor at Crown Archetype, said she saw in Bonfire a wealth of storytelling talents that Ms. Ritter has gleaned from her onscreen career.
She had a great eye for developing a complicated, messy female character the kind of character that you recognize some of yourself in, Ms. Schuster said.
Some of your own fear, some of your own darkness, some of your own secrets.
Having recently wrapped production on a second season of Jessica Jones, Ms. Ritter is now on a promotional tour for Bonfire and exulting in the sense of freedom that the project offered her.
Its a feeling that Ms. Ritter said reminded her of an earlier phase of her career, when she started moving away from modeling and appearing in her first TV commercials.
Recalling that era, she said, I finally have control.
Its not all about, like, how pointy is your nose?
I mean, I have a pointy nose.
But what am I supposed to do?
Its what God gave me.
Photo LOS ANGELES The show apparently goes on.
On Saturday night, as chauffeured S.U.V.s carrying the likes of Jennifer Lawrence and Steven Spielberg inched through gridlock traffic en route to the Governors Awards, the first major stop on Hollywoods long march to the Oscars, a question hung in the air: How would attendees handle self-celebration at a time when sexual harassment scandals are engulfing the entertainment industry?
On the presenter list were some of Hollywoods most outspoken women, including Angelina Jolie, Ava DuVernay and Jessica Chastain.
Would the tone be less gleeful than usual?
Perhaps the Piper-Heidsieck Brut Champagne would flow a little less freely?
The outcome was perhaps summed up best by a moment during the cocktail hour, when a waiter arrived with a tray of hors doeuvres.
Deviled eggs for everyone!
he cheerfully pronounced.
Indeed, the topic of sexual harassment went unmentioned during the formal ceremony, which lasted more than three hours and covered honorary Oscars for the cinematographer Owen Roizman, the actor Donald Sutherland and three directors Agns Varda, Charles Burnett and Alejandro G. Irritu.
The closest anyone came to the elephant in the room was Ms. Jolie, who introduced Ms. Varda, the filmmaker credited with inspiring the French new wave movement with her 1956 film, La Pointe Courte.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story We need to draw strength from artists like Agns, Ms. Jolie said from the stage.
Those women who went first, who took that first step, showed the way for all of us.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Then Ms. Jolie and the mischievous Ms. Varda did a little dance.
It seemed during a few moments as if the Governors Awards were taking place in a parallel dimension where the torrent of sexual harassment allegations against male stars, producers and directors did not exist.
Dustin Hoffman, for instance, strode onstage and was greeted with enthusiastic applause.
In recent weeks, Mr. Hoffman was accused of sexual harassment by two women.
He issued an apology on Nov. 1.
Photo The subject of R J Smiths 2012 biography The One: The Life and Music of James Brown lived a life that was, to say the least, highly visible.
For his new book, American Witness, Mr. Smith chose a far more reclusive subject the Swiss-born photographer and filmmaker Robert Frank, best known for The Americans, a groundbreaking 1959 book of black-and-white photos that offered an unvarnished look at the country at midcentury.
(Ive always wished I could write songs the way he takes pictures, Bruce Springsteen once said.)
Mr. Frank, now in his 90s, was an integral part of the cultural churn of New York City in the 1950s and 60s.
Mr. Smith writes of The Americans in his biography: Robert Frank wants to connect with his country, and he hunts for a shared identity.
But he also wants to be profoundly lost and unknown.
He lives in the street and yearns to move silently among people who dont recognize him.
Below, Mr. Smith talks about first learning of Mr. Frank in a rock magazine in the 1970s, how American Witness became darker and more ambiguous as he wrote it, his fascination with one of the Three Stooges, and more.
When did you first get the idea to write this book?
The first time I heard of Robert Frank was from reading in Creem magazine, in 1973 or 1974, about this film that there was a big argument about with the Rolling Stones, [expletive] Blues, and that there was this guy the Stones let go on the road with them, and who they bowed down to and were in awe of, and were now running scared from.
I was thinking then: This guy is more extreme and more cool to a teenager than the Rolling Stones.
I was 14 or so.
About five years ago, I had thought Id sold a book about Aretha Franklin, and for various reasons it didnt happen.
And my wife said to me, Who do you just want to write about?
Not what book do you think you can sell, and how much for?
Forget about that.
Who would you be interested in thinking about for a number of years and trying to understand?
That was a great question.
And Robert Frank was the answer.
Whats the most surprising thing you learned while writing it?
Frank says that he once sued a magazine for calling him bohemian.
I love that, and Im fascinated by that.
I hadnt heard it until I started working on this biography.
To many of us, this is someone who seems like an admirable, great bohemian of all time, but that drove him nuts.
He needs to feel outside of definition or at least easy definition and received labels, and thats something so important to understanding him; that even in this funny anecdotal way, he doesnt want to be explained, and certainly not in a clich.
Of course, his not wanting to be explained made it very interesting to work on this book.
The Good Doctor is sharp enough to leave open the possibility that they might sometimes have a point.
Shauns inability to read cues can alienate patients.
When hes cogitating on a diagnosis, he goes blank, like a computer app in spinning-wheel mode, and the show suspends the tension long enough that you, like his colleagues, wonder if somethings gone wrong.
The conceit of The Good Doctor is that the condition that limits Shauns human interactions is inseparable from his gift.
I cant speak to the accuracy of its representation of autism I am neither a doctor, nor do I play one on TV but Shauns emotional challenge is the shows emotional engine.
Shaun may not understand human relations well enough to know that, say, he shouldnt wake his apartment superintendent after midnight.
But Mr. Highmore (Bates Motel) makes him appealing and eager, with an unintentionally comic candor.
(His version of a reassuring diagnosis: Its definitely not flesh-eating bacteria!)
You root for him and for his advocate, Dr. Aaron Glassman (Richard Schiff).
Photo The Good Doctor was adapted from a South Korean series by David Shore, the creator of House, which had a different sort of difficult protagonist.
Dr. Gregory House (Hugh Laurie) was a crusty, arrogant physician in the sharp-elbowed spirit of the post-9/11 aughts, when figures from Jack Bauer of 24 to Simon Cowell of American Idol popularized the idea that nice guys dont get the job done.
On House, the doctors misanthropy was as much a strength as a liability his suspicion (Everybody lies) and lack of sentiment led him to ingenious diagnoses.
In the Good Doctor pilot, Shaun asks something of a dismissive superior that could have been aimed at his TV predecessor.
Youre very arrogant, he says.
Do you think that helps you be a good surgeon?
Does it hurt you as a person?
Is it worth it?
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
On the page, that sounds sanctimonious and angry, but Shaun asks it out of curiosity.
Thats his way.
Hes not cuddly or warm, but hes guileless and well intentioned the anti-antihero version of Gregory House.
Not just Shaun but his fellow young doctors are learning the art of dealing with frightened patients, getting a feel for the proper dosage of tact, honesty, sympathy and willingness to bend rules.
While there may be different ways to be good and to express caring, The Good Doctor suggests, it is something worth aspiring to an idea that may especially appeal to viewers who have experienced health care as scary, impersonal and alienating.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Elsewhere, The Good Doctor creates emotional investment the old-fashioned way: by stabbing a hypodermic needle of it straight into your heart.
The manipulative incidental music is abundant, as are the heart-wrenching scenarios.
A bus carrying a wedding party crashes in one episode; in another, we meet a young boy with cancer who is so charming and wise that, if you have watched more than one medical drama in your life, you know hes not long for this world.
We also get a series of bludgeoningly woeful flashbacks to Shauns childhood his father beats him, his brother dies, his pet rabbit dies which the show has thankfully dialed back on lately.
Even Mr. Schiff, known for playing acerbic characters like Toby Ziegler on The West Wing, is cast here as an avuncular guardian teddy bear.
But Mr. Schiff is convincing in the role, and Mr. Highmore is striking in his.
The Good Doctor has hardly reinvented the syrupy, tear-jerking medical drama.
But it has found a new way to complicate that genres oldest idea: that human connection is the best medicine.
Mr. Day protested, The left-wing media loves to repeat these sexual harassment stories.
Theres a new one every day, Mike.
Mr. Bennett replied.
I know.
Even I heard about Louis C.K.
and Im not allowed to watch TV, Im only allowed to listen to it.
Kate McKinnon emerged from a cabinet in the role of Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who ran through some of Mr. Moores other recent behavior: waving a gun onstage, and proclaiming that Muslims shouldnt be allowed to hold office in Congress and that 9-11 was Gods punishment for sodomy.
I love it, Ms. McKinnon said.
You check a lot of boxes for me, Roy, but this is really bad.
Im usually the creepiest one in the room, but I look at you and Im like, oh my God.
The sketch ended with Ms. McKinnon delivering a soliloquy to a stuffed possum she called Papa.
She said, Theres so many men out there, acting like monsters.
Mr. Weinstein, Kevin Spacey, the president.
Daddy, has this been happening forever?
Have I both fostered and benefited from a culture of systemic oppression?
No?
Well, thats a relief.
Monologue Jokes of the Week Ms. Haddish, who is the first black female comedian to host Saturday Night Live, talked in her monologue about how shed grown up in foster care and considered S.N.L.
to be her favorite show.
You have no idea how difficult it is to get a group of black and Hispanic kids to watch S.N.L.
over In Living Color, she said.
Taking on the topic of sexual harassment, Ms. Haddish offered some advice to male viewers.
Fellas, I got a tip for yall, she said.
I like to call it Tiffanys tip.
Its a Tiff tip.
Listen, fellas, listen, O.K.?
If you got your thing-thing out, and she got all her clothes on, youre wrong.
Youre in the wrong.
Wait till she takes her own clothes off, then pull your thing-thing out, O.K.?
Photo Advertisement Continue reading the main story Weekend Update Riffs of the Week The topic of sexual misconduct resurfaced in a pair of riffs by the Weekend Update co-anchors Colin Jost and Michael Che.
Mr. Jost began by saying, Well, its a good weekend to stay inside, since its 20 degrees out, and everyone youve ever heard of is a sex monster.
(At this moment, the screen showed pictures of Louis C.K., Mr. Spacey, Harvey Weinstein and Mr.
Moore.)
Mr. Jost continued: Alabama Republican Senate candidate Roy Moore has been accused of having inappropriate sexual relations when he was in his 30s with several teenage girls.
Now, Im not saying hes guilty, but his naughty little cowboy outfit is screaming it.
He looks like a guy who shows up in Westworld and says, Hey can someone show me where the middle school is?
And how are we still surprised that someone who puts the Ten Commandments up everywhere doesnt follow them?
Whats next, it turns out the guy who always jokes about masturbating wasnt joking about masturbating?
(Here the screen showed another picture of Louis C.K.)
In his own run of jokes, Mr. Che said, Alabama state auditor Jim Zeigler defended Roy Moore using Mary and Joseph as examples, saying, Mary was a teenager and Joseph was an adult carpenter.
They became parents of Jesus.
Oh, word?
So thats what youre going with?
Roy Moore was trying to make a Jesus?
Oh, O.K.
So I guess R. Kelly was just trying to make it rain for 40 days and 40 nights.
Human Resources Staff Member of the Week In a desk-side character piece on Weekend Update, Cecily Strong played Claire, an especially harried member of NBCs human resources department, as she attempted to educate Mr. Jost on the companys sexual harassment policy.
Administering a quiz to Mr. Jost, Ms. Strong asked, What is the appropriate way to handle a workplace relationship: A) inform someone at H.R.
; B) lock her in a room and make her look at it; or C) bully her out of the entire industry?
When Mr. Jost correctly answered A, Ms. Strong replied, Youd be surprised how many people get that wrong.
It could make you lose your damn mind, then cackled for good measure.
She also held up a doll dressed in a suit and asked Mr. Jost, When talking to a co-worker in the office, where should you keep your penis?
(Just point on the doll where your penis should be, she explained.
No wrong answers here, just super wrong answers.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ms. Strong told Mr. Jost he had passed but warned, Im sure Ill be back next week and the week after that, forever and ever, she said.
Because all of this isnt just a scandal.
It didnt just start last week.
Its just actual reality for half of the population.
She then took a swig of hand sanitizer, glanced at her phone and exclaimed, George Takei, no!
Equal Opportunity Offenders of the Week A sketch in the guise of an advertisement for the Democratic National Committee featured several S.N.L.
cast members and a couple of beloved alumni playing prominent Democrats celebrating the partys electoral successes this week.
The tone was set by Alex Moffat, playing Senator Charles Schumer of New York, who declared, We havent felt this confident since the day before Trump won.
The sketch also featured Ms. Strong as Senator Dianne Feinstein of California and Ms. McKinnon as Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House minority leader.
Together, were going to end the spirit of divisiveness in this country by focusing on how we won the governors races in two of the 10 states we care about, Ms. Strong said.
Ms. McKinnon said, And we learned our lesson from the last election: We cant just appeal to coastal elites.
We need mouth-breathers from Wisconsin.
Ms. Strong added, And window-lickers from Ohio as well.
Larry David, who hosted Saturday Night Live last weekend, reprised his recurring role as Senator Bernie Sanders while making reference to his own controversial S.N.L.
monologue.
Were really going to lace into people if they dont say whats politically correct, Mr. David said.
Like these comics out there who think its O.K.
to make jokes about concentration camps.
That guy should rot in hell.
Ms. McKinnon played a second character in the sketch, returning as Hillary Clinton.
Another chance for me, Hillary Rodham Clinton, she said.
Just one more chance.
And maybe one more chance after that.
Playing the role of Donna Brazile, the longtime Democratic Party official, Leslie Jones responded, I thought she was dead.
Photo Oprah Winfrey sits down with Joe Biden for an interview about the loss of his son to cancer.
A documentary explores one of Americas first celebrity chefs.
Whats On TV SUPERSOUL SUNDAY 11 a.m. on OWN.
Oprah Winfrey sits down for an interview with former Vice President Joe Biden to talk about his new book, Promise Me, Dad: A Year of Hope, Hardship, and Purpose.
In the book and the interview he revisits his struggles during 2015, when he lost his son Beau to brain cancer while still in office.
MTV EUROPE MUSIC AWARDS 3 p.m. on MTV.
The Europe Music Awards were created in 1994 as counterprogramming to the American V.M.A.s.
Somehow, though, all six of those nominated for best artist this year are from North America.
But the host is Rita Ora, who grew up in West London and will attempt to imbue the Wembley Arena event with a hometown sensibility as her wanderlust-driven single Anywhere climbs the British charts.
Shell be joined onstage by fellow Brits (Liam Payne, Stormzy), a Cuban-American (Camila Cabello), and the minence grise of Ireland, U2.
And Kesha returns after a bitter legal battle to support an uplifting new album, Rainbow.
Photo JEREMIAH TOWER: THE LAST MAGNIFICENT (2017) 9 p.m. on CNN.
Before Emeril, Bobby Flay and Gordon Ramsay, there was Jeremiah Tower, one of Americas first celebrity chefs.
Along with the chef Alice Waters, he transformed Chez Panisse in Berkeley into a cultural destination, putting fresh local ingredients at the heart of a new California Cuisine.
The result was a complete re-evaluation of not just American food and ingredients, but food, said Anthony Bourdain, an executive producer of this documentary.
This film chronicles Mr.
Towers creation of the immensely popular restaurant Stars, his disappearance from the spotlight, and subsequent return to Tavern on the Green.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story MADAM SECRETARY 10 p.m. on CBS.
Secretary of State Elizabeth McCord, played with mettle by Ta Leoni, refuses to negotiate with terrorists for the release of a captured CIA agent.
Elizabeth tries to support her daughter Stevie through a difficult time.
AMC VISIONARIES: ROBERT KIRKMANS SECRET HISTORY OF COMICS 11 p.m. on AMC.
Robert Kirkman, the creative mastermind behind The Walking Dead comic book series, is moving onto the next apocalypse: He recently announced a new series, Oblivion Song, that centers on an alien-related catastrophe in Philadelphia.
In this six-part series, he looks back on the transformations and evolutions of the comic book world, with interviews with luminaries like Stan Lee, Patty Jenkins, J.K. Simmons and Michelle Rodriguez.
If you cant think of the glaringly obvious reason I remained silent, Ms. Paquin said in a subsequent post, then perhaps youve forgotten that Ive been in this victim grooming industry since before I hit puberty.
In addition to the allegations against Mr. Ratner that were reported by The Los Angeles Times, another woman, Melanie Kohler, said in a Facebook post on Oct. 18 that Mr. Ratner had raped her.
She took down the post after a phone call with Martin Singer, a lawyer for Mr. Ratner.
Mr. Ratner went on to file a defamation lawsuit against Ms. Kohler that said her post was entirely false, fabricated and fictional.
In statement to The New York Times regarding the other allegations, Mr. Singer said he and Mr. Ratner are confident that his name will be cleared once the current media frenzy dies down and people can objectively evaluate the nature of these claims.
Mr. Singer did not respond immediately to an emailed request for comment on Saturday about Ms.
Pages allegations.
Ms.
Pages lengthy post was more than an accusation against Mr. Ratner.
Photo The behavior Im describing is ubiquitous, she wrote.
They (abusers), want you to feel small, to make you insecure, to make you feel like you are indebted to them, or that your actions are to blame for their unwelcome advances.
She recalled being touched or assaulted by at least two other men when she was 16, and she said she regretted working with the director Woody Allen, who has also been accused of abuse.
Ms.
Page, who developed and produced Gaycation, a documentary series in which she traveled around the world meeting lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people, called violence against women an epidemic, and her post touched on homophobia, privilege, victimization and white supremacy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Lets remember the epidemic of violence against women in our society disproportionately affects low income women, particularly women of color, trans and queer women and indigenous women, who are silenced by their economic circumstances and profound mistrust of a justice system that acquits the guilty in the face of overwhelming evidence and continues to oppress people of color, she wrote, adding that she had the privilege of wealth and a platform to speak out.
A representative for Ms.
Page said she was not available for comment.
Many of the women and men who have come forward with allegations of sexual misconduct have said they were inspired by others who made similar claims, including celebrities who have made use of their public platforms and people across a range of industries including technology, fashion and food service who have been sharing stories of harassment on social media using the hashtag #MeToo.
Mr. Ratner is one in a long line of prominent men who have been accused of sexual misconduct, harassment or assault in recent months.
Others include the producer Harvey Weinstein, the director James Toback, the NPR president and former New York Times editor Michael Oreskes and the comedian Louis C. K. I am grateful to anyone and everyone who speaks out against abuse and trauma they have suffered, Ms.
Page wrote on Friday.
You are breaking the silence.
You are revolution.
He also excels at drawing compellingly acted performances from a strong cast, starting here with the soprano Christine Goerke, an arresting Brnnhilde.
In the time since her first staged Brnnhilde in Toronto in early 2015 Ms. Goerke has made this role her own.
(She will sing it when the Metropolitan Opera revives Robert Lepages Ring next season.)
That her singing on Friday was so sumptuous, powerful and exciting was no surprise.
Her Valkyrie war cries rang with steely brilliance; her frantic pleas to her sisters to protect her from Wotans wrath had tremulous intensity.
She brought disarming vulnerability to the moments when this feisty Brnnhilde was caught up in emotional confusion, especially the long scene in Act II when Wotan unburdens himself to his favorite child and tells the whole sorry saga of the mistakes he made trying to gain more power.
The bass-baritone Eric Owens is a magnificent Wotan.
His first crack at the role came last season here with the Lyric Operas Rheingold.
Though that performance had dignity and vigor, vocally he sounded a little underpowered.
Photo That was not a problem during Fridays Walkre.
With a stentorian voice and crisp diction, he sent Wotans phrases soaring into the house.
And this gods dilemma, the way he has enslaved himself, as he tells Brnnhilde, by finagling with covenants he is supposed to enforce, came through achingly during this heartbreaking scene.
As presented here, Wotan and his wife, Fricka (the rich-voiced mezzo-soprano Tanja Ariane Baumgartner), could be a wealthy robber baron in the late 19th century and his entitled-acting spouse.
If he appealing tenor Brandon Jovanovich lacked a little vocal heft as Siegmund, he sang with burnished sound and deep feeling, and conveyed the sadness of a rootless young person who does not even know hes a demigod, the son of Wotan.
The impressive soprano Elisabet Strid, as Sieglinde, sang with radiant, focused sound and poignant expressive shadings.
She and Mr. Jovanovich were profoundly moving during Act I as these long-separated twins realize their connection and fall helplessly in love.
Mr. Pountney made a bad call in his staging by having Sieglindes bullying husband Hunding (the bass Ain Anger in a menacing performance) chain her to the tree in his hut when hes away.
No physical restraint keeps miserable Sieglinde in this abusive marriage.
She is terrified.
But Hunding has also beaten her down, made her feel like a powerless nobody.
Andrew Davis conducted an uncommonly warm and flowing performance of Wagners score almost too much so.
There were stretches when subdued passages, for all the beauty of the playing, lost suspense and tension.
But the episodes of high drama had plenty of vigor and clarity.
And perhaps the restraint Mr. Davis brought to bear balanced out the theatricality of the staging to good effect.
Photo The BBC announced that it was postponing the debut of its new thriller, an Agatha Christie adaptation starring Ed Westwick, and said that production had been disrupted on another series starring the actor, after two women in the past week accused him of rape.
These are serious allegations which Ed Westwick has strenuously denied, the BBC said in a statement on Friday.
The broadcaster added that it is not making any judgment, but said that until these matters are resolved, the drama Ordeal by Innocence would not appear on television.
The show had been set to air in Britain as part of the BBCs Christmas programming and was later expected to become available on Amazon in the United States.
Mr. Westwick, best known for portraying Chuck Bass on Gossip Girl, was also starring in the series White Gold, a BBC comedy that is available on Netflix.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The independent production company making White Gold has informed us that Ed Westwick has paused from filming while he deals with these allegations, the BBC said.
And when fees are added, it should also exceed the colossal $110.5 million spent by the Japanese collector Yusaku Maezawa for a Jean-Michel Basquiat painting at Sothebys contemporary auction in May.
The allure of Leonardo has already inspired Paramount to buy the film rights to Walter Isaacsons newly published biography of the Italian Renaissance artist, with Leonardo DiCaprio as the lead.
Its an iconic picture and an iconic name, Jean-Luc Baroni, a dealer in old masters, based in London, said of the Leonardo.
By putting it in a contemporary sale, they shine a big light on the painting.
And for clients of contemporary art, the price level might sound less prohibitive, he added.
Impressionist, modern and contemporary art with an estimated value of least $1.6 billion will be offered at Christies, Sothebys and Phillips.
The value of these consignments, which include works by Francis Bacon, Andy Warhol, Fernand Leger and Franz Kline, as well as, incongruously, a Ferrari racecar, represents an increase of more than 46 percent over the equivalent auctions last November.
The $110.5 million bid in May for the 1982 Basquiat was the most dramatic indicator of how the auction market for contemporary art has grown over the last six months.
After two years of contraction, global auction sales of contemporary art grew 14 percent in the first half of 2017, signaling a new period of prosperity, according to a report published by Artprice.com, which monitors auction results.
David Nisinson, a collector and art adviser based in New York, said that a year ago there was uncertainty about how the United States election would affect the stock market, but its just continued to go up.
Theres a lot of unexpected money around, and some of it is very confident, Mr. Nisinson said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Confident buyers give confidence to sellers, particularly when their entries are backed by guaranteed prices.
About half of the 74 lots at Sothebys Tuesday night contemporary auction carry some form of guarantee.
(The figure is a bit lower at Christies.)
With the Dow Jones industrial average at an all-time high, and President Trump planning tax cuts for corporations and the wealthy, the key indicators seem to be positive for the top end of the art market, at least in America.
But there are one or two clouds on the horizon.
President Trumps proposed tax changes include a measure to restrict 1031 like-kind exchanges to real estate transactions.
This provision had allowed high-end art investors to sell works and quickly replace them with pieces of similar value and defer paying federal taxes.
There are so many active and influential players who use it, said Mr. Nisinson, the collector.
Theyre constantly selling and buying without having to pay capital gains.
They will sell less and have less money to buy with.
It could put a damper on things.
But for the moment, those with the wealth to spend millions on art have plenty to choose from.
Here are some of next weeks highlights and one cliffhanger withdrawal.
Leonardos Salvator Mundi It has been hailed by some experts as the art discovery of the century.
Dating from about 1500, this panel painting of Christ as Savior of the World, was identified in a 2011 exhibition at the National Gallery in London as the long-lost original of a Leonardo owned in the 17th century by Queen Henrietta Maria, the wife of King Charles I of England.
But it comes to Christies with plenty of baggage.
In 2005, the Salvator Mundi, then unrecognized and in much overpainted condition, was bought at an estate auction in the United States for less than $10,000.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
After being cleaned and researched, the painting, now cataloged as a work by Leonardo, was sold in 2013 by three dealers to the Swiss businessman Yves Bouvier for $80 million in a private transaction brokered by Sothebys.
Soon afterward, Mr. Bouvier sold the painting for $127.5 million to the Russian billionaire collector Dmitry E. Rybolovlev, whose family trust is the seller at Christies.
The profits made by Mr. Bouvier on this and 37 other artworks bought by Mr. Rybolovlev have become the subject of an ongoing legal dispute between the two men.
The picture is also in abraded condition, giving the image a ghostlike quality.
Luke Syson, curator of the National Gallerys 2011 Leonardo da Vinci: Painter in the Court of Milan exhibition, said in its catalog that the Salvator Mundi had been aggressively over-cleaned.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Given the condition of the Salvator Mundi, and the fact that it was undocumented in the artists lifetime, some scholars have reservations about the attribution to Leonardo.
Carmen C. Bambach, the curator of the Metropolitan Museum of Arts current Michelangelo show, as well as one in 2003 on Leonardo, said in her 2012 review of the National Gallery exhibition that much of the original painting surface may be by Boltraffio, but with passages done by Leonardo himself.
(Giovanni Antonio Boltraffio worked in the studio of Leonardo.)
Ms. Bambach said in an email Friday that she had not revised her view of the painting.
But Christies said in its catalog that there is currently a broad consensus among academics that this is a work by the artist himself.
Photo Christies has a Leonardo, Sothebys has a Ferrari.
Sothebys has, for the first time, turned to a Formula One racecar to diversify the appeal of its contemporary art sale.
On Tuesday, it will be offering a 900 horsepower Ferrari F2001, with the chassis that Michael Schumacher drove to victory in 2001 in both the Monaco and Hungarian Grand Prix.
It is guaranteed to sell for at least $4 million and is touted by Sothebys as the most important modern Formula One racecar in existence.
This is a bold move, said Simon Kidston, founder of the Geneva-based car dealership Kidston.
Its a Ferrari, so by extension its collectible.
But is it one of the greatest Ferraris?
No, he added, pointing out that in 2004 Bonhams sold a Ferrari F1/2000 in which Schumacher won four Grands Prix.
Photo Basketball Drawing by David Hammons The latest round of auctions has been boosted by prestigious estates coming to market.
Christies has four works in its evening sale from the estate of the philanthropist Melva Bucksbaum, a former vice-chairwoman of the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York.
They include Untitled (Basketball Drawing) by David Hammons, from 2003, made by repeatedly bouncing a graphite-encrusted NBA ball against a sheet of paper.
The recent Soul of a Nation: Art in the Age of Black Power exhibition at the Tate Modern in London enhanced Mr. Hammonss reputation as being among the most influential African-American contemporary artists.
Ms. Bucksbaums 10-foot-high example is relatively early and is estimated to sell for between $1 million and $1.5 million.
The current auction high for a Hammons drawing is $1.6 million, according to Artnet.
Photo Picasso Crayon Drawing Previously best known for selling works by younger artists, Phillips is now developing a reputation for auctioning valuable pieces of 20th-century art.
Its Thursday evening sale includes the 1946 Picasso colored crayon drawing, Portrait de Femme Endormie III, from the estate of Anne Marie Aberbach and Julian J. Aberbach.
This serene study of the artists muse, Franoise Gilot, sleeping, is estimated at $1 million to $1.5 million but is likely to go higher.
The design is so considered and the color so rich, said David Norman, an art adviser in New York.
It possesses that transported, sensual quality of the Marie-Thrse, he added, referring to earlier works inspired by Picassos relationship with Marie-Thrse Walter.
Norman Rockwell Paintings The most talked-about exclusion of the week was undoubtedly the seven artworks from the Berkshire Museum in Pittsfield, Mass., due to be sold in Sothebys Monday sale of American art.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Massachusetts Appeals Court on Friday blocked the sale of the group, which included two paintings by Norman Rockwell.
His 1950 oil on canvas, Shuffletons Barbershop, showing silver-haired men making music in a lamplit interior, has been described by a biographer of the artist, Deborah Solomon, as one of his five or six best works and given an estimated price of $20 million to $30 million by Sothebys.
The artist donated this painting to the museum in 1959.
The Rockwells were among 40 artworks being deaccessioned by the financially-strapped Berkshire Museum to fund a redevelopment program.
Though opposed by two groups of plaintiffs, including Rockwells sons, as well as the office of the Massachusetts attorney general, Maura Healey, their sale had been approved on Tuesday by a Berkshire Superior Court judge.
Ms. Healeys request for an injunction halting the sale has now been granted on appeal.
The injunction will expire on Dec. 11, but may be extended.
This abortive sale represents a cautionary moment for auction houses that contract with museums who have not cleared such a sale with local communities and regulators.
Sothebys, in a statement, said: We have never doubted that the board of trustees acted in good faith and was well within their legal rights, and we remain confident that they will prevail in their plans to ensure a bright future for the Berkshire Museum.
Photo Friday was launch day for Reputation, the sixth studio album by the pop singer Taylor Swift.
The monthslong rollout the albums first single, Look What You Made Me Do, was released in August created such anticipation for the record on social media that a custom emoji was even created for Twitter mentions of the album.
Its an incredibly different world from the one Ms.
Swift first encountered during the release of her first record.
On Oct. 22, 2006, the New York Times pop music critic Kelefa Sanneh included the song Tim McGraw in his playlist recommendations it would be Ms. Swifts first mention in The Times.
The 145-word item was wedged between a review of the mid-aught reggae act DaVille and Stephen McGregor (complete with a link to their Myspace page) and a mention of the hummable work of short-lived Blink-182 spinoff act Plus-44.
The full text of Ms. Swifts first mention in The Times: Have you heard the new Tim McGraw song?
No the new Tim McGraw song.
Ms.
Swift is a young singer who is brazen enough to sing a song named after one of country musics biggest names.
The song is a lightweight ode to seasonal love I was right there beside him all summer long and an acoustic guitar helps set the bucolic scene.
Then, in the refrain, comes the name-dropping: When you think Tim McGraw/ I hope you think my favorite song/ The one we danced to all night long.
For the protagonist in the song, its a humble request.
For the singer of the song, less so.
When you think Tim McGraw, I hope you think of me, Ms.
Swift sings, and given how much time country listeners seem to spend thinking about that guy, it seems like asking a lot.
The blurb caught Ms. Swifts career as it was taking flight.
The single, her first, had just been released four months earlier.
Her self-titled first album which went on to be certified platinum would be released two days later.
She had just been announced as the new opener of that falls Rascal Flatts tour.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Louder Newsletter Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics.
Both everything has changed, and nothing has changed since that brief mention, when she was called brazen enough to name her single after a country megastar.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But in the past 11 years, with what Mr. Sanneh called her lightweight ode to seasonal love, Ms.
Swift has become one of the best-selling artists of all time, with 10 Grammy wins and 29 nominations.
Now the bold pop star begins again, with yet another clean slate.
Reviewing Ms. Swifts new release, the Times critic Jon Caramanica called it bombastic, unexpected, sneakily potent and concluded that she is as strong a singer as ever.
Advertisement the look Eternal Youth in Tompkins Square Park The photographer Daniel Weiss found versions of his teenage self in the East Village of Manhattan.
Image Atticus Jones, 19 and Lola Daehler, 19 in Tompkins Square Park.
Credit Daniel Weiss for The New York Times Anyone who has used Ninth Street to cross Tompkins Square Park has seen the skateboarders who occupy its northeast corner.
Many of them call it the T.F.
Others call it Thompsons.
T.F.
stands for training facility (though very little official training takes place here), and Thompsons comes out of a phonetic misunderstanding that comes from knowing a place verbally, rather than on a map.
Like all great New York City skate spots, Tompkins Square Park offers little more than flat ground and a place to be seen.
Manhattan is a concrete island, completely skateable, so why here?
Image Sabrina Fuentes, 17. Credit Daniel Weiss for The New York Times Image Tenzin Che Miyahira, 16, and Kyota Umeki, 15. Credit Daniel Weiss for The New York Times Image Eloisa Santos, 19. Credit Daniel Weiss for The New York Times While most suburban skaters seek spots outside of city centers, the best urban skate spots can be found at the center of any city.
However, as New York City continues to gentrify and to pump millions into purpose-built skate parks, the city forces this peripheral movement: Most skate parks can now be found under bridges and on the edges of Manhattan.
The T.F.
at Tompkins remains a rare hub, a throwback to a grittier era of the citys history.
I first met Daniel Weiss at the T.F.
15 years ago.
He was a stocky redheaded teenager with a precise style and tasteful trick selection.
Skateboarding levels out age differences in the face of skill.
Danny was one of the good kids, and I watched him cultivate other interests outside of skateboarding as he matured.
Image Genesis Evans, 21. Credit Daniel Weiss for The New York Times Image From left, skaters include Cristian Caraballo, 15, Joshua Vargas, 15, Caed Jones, 20, Kyota Umeki, 15, Eric Reinerson, 16, Tenzin Che Miyahira, 16, Radcliffe Coles Wade Bailey, 15 and Lawrence Pinkey Jr., 15. Credit Daniel Weiss for The New York Times Image Manon Macasaet, 18. Credit Daniel Weiss for The New York Times Image Slicky Boy, 22, is a rapper.
Credit Daniel Weiss for The New York Times Danny has always searched for archetypes.
When he quit skating to get into motorcycles, he got into classic bikes.
As a photographer, he shoots medium-format street portraits of New Yorkers who belong to a bygone era.
Here, his subject is coming of age in an ever-replicating scene that seems frozen in time, yet no longer includes us.
Perhaps we no longer have the patience for it, or the fearlessness.
To be a skater, you must repeatedly attempt an inconceivably difficult task, knowing that you will injure yourself along the way.
It takes months, sometimes years, to learn these tricks and to get them consistent.
That means months of bruises, scrapes, broken bones and sometimes worse.
In turn, the sport helps skaters commit to other interests fully, despite their grave risks.
Take Danny and his motorcyles.
On April 16, 2016, he was involved in a near-fatal crash.
He lost control on a dirt track upstate and hit a concrete wall at 80 m.p.h.
He almost died and only recently has been able to walk without a cane.
He may never skate again.
He might not want to.
Image Niamiah Smith, 15. Credit Daniel Weiss for The New York Times Image Via Pouget, 18 Credit Daniel Weiss for The New York Times Image Tyrell Elmore, 19. Credit Daniel Weiss for The New York Times Image Adam Zhu, 21. Credit Daniel Weiss for The New York Times When looking at photography, a reciprocal exchange happens between the viewer and the subject.
Whether we want to or not, we often see or try to see ourselves in the subjects.
Danny, who is in his early 30s, looks back to a place and to people with whom he has shared a huge part of his past.
These teenagers are on the cusp of adulthood, the moment when clothes are less of an aspirational costume, who you want to be, and become a statement of who you are.
Some of them skate, some of them just hang out.
This is a new thing.
When Danny and I were regulars, skateboarding wasnt quite as cool, and the only people we shared the T.F.
with were drunks, drug users and drug dealers.
Image Credit Daniel Weiss for The New York Times A lot has changed over 15 years.
Skateboarding, like the neighborhood, has grown up and acquired a marketable sheen.
It is difficult not to see in these kids, who now dress like the ones in the movie Kids, my contemporaries in the mid-90s.
Who knows how long the park will be a haven for them, or what they will become?
Small, seemingly insubstantial butterfly-wing youthful decisions can have life-changing consequences.
Who knows how long skaters will be allowed to hang out at the T.F., considering the skyrocketing property values of real estate in the East Village?
As perhaps some of Dannys experiences at the T.F.
cultivated his unique perspective, and set him on a course that almost ended his life, his photographs of kids in the park remind us of the rare delicacy of youth and open space in the city.
Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook ( Styles and Modern Love ), Twitter ( Styles , Fashion and Weddings ) and Instagram .
Order Reprints | Todays Paper | Subscribe A version of this article appears in print on , on Page ST 4 of the New York edition Sign up for the Of The Moment Newsletter Get lifestyle news from the Style, Travel and Food sections, from the latest trends to news you can use.
SEE SAMPLE Please verify youre not a robot by clicking the box.
* Required field You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times products and services.
You are already subscribed to this email.
Sign Up
Directors, meanwhile, have justified the mistreatment or plain resentment of women as a gritty artistic choice.
Bernardo Bertolucci, the director of Last Tango in Paris, boasted that he chose not to fully inform his lead actress, Maria Schneider, of all the details of the films infamous butter scene because he wanted her reaction as a girl, not as an actress.
(I felt humiliated and to be honest, I felt a little raped, she said of the experience.)
The director Lars von Trier has whipped misogyny into a persona, delighting in riling actresses and selling the stories to magazines as kicky evidence of his transgressive brilliance.
The auteur, celebrated for tightly controlling all aspects of the filmmaking, seems only to enhance his reputation by flaunting his control of women.
Photo Meanwhile, the entertainment industry seems quite interested in conflating the art and the artist as long as it helps sell movie tickets.
(If Hollywood werent invested in selling the people behind the art, the Oscars wouldnt be televised.)
Stars and power brokers are reflexively praised for their societal contributions.
Even as theyve been accused of harassment, Hollywood men have attempted to fend off the charges by trotting out such good deeds.
Mr. Spacey cynically chose this moment to announce that he is gay in a bid to spin a harrowing assault tale into a heartwarming coming-out one.
Mr. Weinstein countered accusations by dozens of women by mentioning his generous contributions to a scholarship fund for female directors.
And Bill Cosby was more than happy to confuse his art with his personal life when he bellowed his old Fat Albert catchphrase Hey, hey hey!
as he exited a courtroom this past summer during his trial for sexual assault.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Louis C.K., one of the most respected and celebrated comedians today, has built a public persona that simultaneously capitalizes on the praise afforded to the provocative auteur and to the Hollywood do-gooder.
Hes been hailed as a thoughtful feminist figure, a comic capable of landing unexpected jokes while navigating politically correct positions on the issues of the day.
In a memorable bit in his 2013 HBO comedy special, Oh My God, he asks: How do women still go out with guys when you consider the fact that there is no greater threat to women than men?
Were the No.
1 threat to women!
His stand-up routine is obsessed with masturbation but also infused with insights into power and consent, situating him as a kind of ethical pervert, the schlubby male-ally version of the fashionable sex-positive feminist.
At the same time, hes built alternative-world versions of himself as in the FX show Louie where hes tried on the identities of aging creep, attempted rapist and exhibitionist masturbator.
Hes also made his character the victim of similar crimes: Louie has been forced to perform oral sex on a date and been anally penetrated by his friend Pamela as he screams in protest.
In each case, he recovers easily from the violation just as Pamela shrugs it off after Louie tries to drag her, kicking and screaming, to bed with him.
These episodes garnered acclaim as canny twists on gender politics, and their critical reception was clearly vaulted by their engagement with current debates around consent.
These scenes now play differently.
What once looked like creative provocations now read like justifications of a moral universe where women are as complicit in sexual violation as men are, and where sex that begins with force easily gives way to mutual desire.
Men like Louis C.K.
may be creators of art, but they are also destroyers of it.
They have crushed the ambition of women and, in some cases, young men boys in the industry, robbing them of their own opportunities.
The comedians Dana Min Goodman and Julia Wolov said that after Louis C.K.
cornered them and masturbated in front of them at the U.S.
Comedy Arts Festival in 2002, they feared that speaking out about the incident could risk their careers.
While Louis C.K.
felt free to flaunt the behavior throughout his comedy in one scene of Louie, Pamela begs him not to start masturbating in front of her the women were silenced.
He took advantage of them, then took ownership of the experience.
Another performer, Abby Schachner, said her own inappropriate run-in with Louis C.K.
discouraged her from pursuing comedy altogether.
(As he himself put it in an apology released on Friday: The power I had over these women is that they admired me.
And I wielded that power irresponsibly.)
Our assessments of mens contributions to an art form ought to be informed by the avenues they have closed off for other artists.
Photo Perhaps, instead of considering the possibility of separating the art from the artist, its instructive to think of the impossibility of separating the artist from his industry.
Louis C.K.
is not just a comedian and director but also a gatekeeper and tastemaker, whose reach has stretched far beyond his idiosyncratic projects.
Film is an art and also a business, though one that can lack the human-resources infrastructure of corporate America.
No one makes that clearer than Mr. Weinstein, who stands accused of corrupting the artistic process to take advantage of women even as he has strong-armed his films to Oscar gold.
Those offended by the opportunities artists have lost in recent weeks should know that casting choices that feel like artistic decisions have almost always been economic ones.
After Ridley Scott chose to cut Mr. Spacey from his already completed film All the Money in the World and reshoot his scenes with Christopher Plummer, The Associated Press reported that Mr. Plummer was actually Mr. Scotts first choice for the role.
The studio, however, had demanded a bigger name until that big name became a big liability.
The habit of treating artists as transcendent creators rather than as players in an economic system serves to protect them from typical workplace expectations.
And in the same way that a sneaker or technology company tries to distract the consumer from vile production processes by churning out covetable products, Hollywood serves up spectacles that seek to conceal the conditions under which theyre made.
Photo Many of these works make the consumer complicit in the perspective of the abuser.
Even the casual objectification of, say, Brett Ratners Rush Hour series so often written off as harmless fantasy is constructed to elevate mens desires over womens lives.
And some such scenes are leveraged by directors and producers looking for opportunities to place actresses in vulnerable positions, as when James Toback director of such psychosexual films as Two Guys and a Girl instructed Selma Blair to undress alone in his hotel room on the pretext that she was auditioning for a role.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story What do we do with these people?
It seems uncontroversial that offenders who remain in positions of power ought to be unseated to prevent further abuses.
As for the art, we can begin to consider how the work is made in our assessment of it.
This conversation is often framed, unhelpfully, as an either-or: Whose work do we support, and whose do we discard forever?
HBO cut ties with Louis C.K.
on Thursday, dropping him from a coming benefit show and removing his comedy specials from its on-demand service.
The first move seems wise, but the second feels perhaps counterproductive.
Louis C.K.s comedy specials are artifacts of both his comedic artistry and his self-justifying persona.
Some viewers may not want to see Louis C.K.s face again, but others could find illumination in watching his work with a new eye.
None of this is to say that its never valuable to consider a piece of art on its own terms, or that biographical details necessarily make for illuminating connections.
Many personal lives are simply boring, and works with well-meaning politics can be very bad.
(See: Keith Urbans new male-ally anthem, Female.)
But the insistence that the two always be separated feels suspect.
Some who advocate this worry that too much biography can spoil our appreciation of the art.
But women and other marginalized audiences are already accustomed to managing the cognitive dissonance of finding meaning in art that ignores us, or worse.
Drawing connections between art and abuse can actually help us see the works more clearly, to understand them in all of their complexity, and to connect them to our real lives and experiences even if those experiences are negative.
In this light, some aspects of the work can seem more impressive.
The knowledge that Ms. Blair or Lupita Nyongo weathered harassment in their careers only makes their performances even more extraordinary.
If a piece of art is truly spoiled by an understanding of the conditions under which it is made, then perhaps the artist was not quite as exceptional as we had thought.
The injunction will expire on Dec. 11, but the court added that the attorney generals office may move to extend it.
Sothebys had described the Berkshire Museum works as a superb collection that was among the highlights of its American Art sale on Monday.
In addition to Shuffletons Barbershop, which Sothebys said Rockwell created for the cover of The Saturday Evening Post in 1950, the auction was to include Rockwells Blacksmiths Boy Heel and Toe (Shaftsbury Blacksmith Shop), which was estimated to have a price of $7 million to $10 million.
Among other museum works to be offered on Monday were The White Dress by Thomas Wilmer Dewing, Hunter in Winter Wood by George Henry Durrie and Connecticut River Valley, Claremont, New Hampshire by Albert Bierstadt.
Last summer, the financially strapped museum announced the planned sale of 40 works, including Impressionist and modern art, contemporary art, 19th-century European paintings, American art and Chinese art.
The museum said the proceeds were needed to build its endowment, renovate its building and expand programming to create a heightened emphasis on science and history.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Officials from the museum and from Sothebys said they were disappointed by the decision.
Elizabeth McGraw, the president of the museums board of trustees called the court decision a setback for the institution and its neighbors.
The auction that held the promise of addressing our museums serious financial difficulties will have to proceed without our works, and our plans for the future will be delayed, she said in a written statement.
Until that process resolves, we will continue to do what we do every day: bring our passion for art, science and discovery to our community.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The auction house confirmed that Mondays auction would go forward with the rest of more than 70 works that have been slated for sale.
We have never doubted that the board of trustees acted in good faith and was well within their legal rights, Sothebys said in a statement, and we remain confident that they will prevail in their plans to ensure a bright future for the Berkshire Museum in support of the community of Pittsfield and western Massachusetts.
Michael B. Keating, a lawyer for the Rockwell family and others seeking to stop the sale, said his clients fully supported the decision that blocked the auction of the museum items and the irreparable harm that would occur if these paintings were to be sold.
Museum organizations have condemned the museums deaccessioning plan, saying it violated guidelines against the sale of art to subsidize operating and other expenses instead of using such proceeds to enhance or maintain a collection.
Rockwells sons and a group of museum members sued separately to stop the sale.
But Judge John A. Agostini of Berkshire Superior Court found that they lacked legal standing.
Judge Agostini also denied a request by the attorney general to block the sale.
The states lawyers told the appeals court on Friday that the museum was looking to sell nearly all of its valuable art.
Doing so would violate a number of trusts, they said, including what they described as a promise to Rockwell that his works would remain in the permanent collection and another pledge that some of the works slated for auction would never leave Pittsfield.
This sale is unprecedented in terms of the number, value and prominence of the works being proposed, the centrality of these works to the museums collection, and the process the museum employed to select and dispose of the deaccessioned items, the attorney generals office said in its filing on Friday.
The lower court had described the attorney generals office as a reluctant warrior, whose objections had not included specific details on how it would review the planned sale.
It noted that a delay would have considerable financial consequences for the museum.
It did not find that the museum had violated any of the charitable trusts through which it had come into possession of the art.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The attorney generals office countered in its filing on Friday that while the museum could sell the works in the future, any items disposed of at auction would be very difficult to get back.
It said the museum had not abided by its most pressing mission to preserve its charitable purpose and that whatever the financial hurdles, its relationship to other museums and with donors would be damaged by the sale.
Advertisement that decisive moment Hyper-High Notes: The Weeks 8 Best Classical Music Moments on YouTube Image Audrey Luna, left, in "The Exterminating Angel" at the Metropolitan Opera Credit Sara Krulwich/The New York Times Our critics and reporters offer a glimpse of whats moved and delighted them on YouTube.
Read the rest of our classical music coverage here .
AT 50 SECONDS People Listen This week we learned that a previously unknown Kurt Weill song had been discovered in Berlin.
Its existence was a surprise to Weill experts, who found that it had been written for a satirical revue in 1930 and sung by Lotte Lenya, his wife.
People familiar with Lenyas many recordings may be caught off guard by how high the songs vocal part is; by the 1950s and 60s her voice had settled into a husky Sprechstimme.
But listen to this recording from 1930, around the time when Lenya left the revue for a Berlin production of Weill and Bertolt Brechts opera Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny.
Her voice, while far from operatic, is in the youthful soprano range that Weill would have known and written for in his Weimar-era stage works.
She cant read music, he once said of Lenya, but when she sings, people listen as if it were Caruso.
JOSHUA BARONE Listen to and learn more about the newly discovered song by Kurt Weill.
at 4 minutes Hyper-High Notes While were on the subject of sopranos, I wrote this week about the highest note in the history of the Metropolitan Opera , an A above high C currently being sung by Audrey Luna in Thomas Adss The Exterminating Angel.
In my brief rundown of high-note history, I referred to the French soprano Mado Robin shrilling up to a high B flat; my infelicitous phrasing got called out by some Mado fans, one of whom was kind enough to send along a couple of her highlights.
Recorded live, this is, my reader tells me, a French version of one of the big Miliza Korjus showpieces from the 1938 MGM musical The Great Waltz.
Its climax takes her up to what I believe (correct me if Im wrong) is quite a lovely sustained B flat, half a step above Ms. Lunas achievement.
ZACHARY WOOLFE Read our piece on the highest note in the history of the Met.
AT 3 minutes 56 seconds Understudy Stratosphere O.K., were not done with the high notes yet.
The soprano Rachele Gilmore has sung just two Met performances, as the doll Olympia in Offenbachs Les Contes dHoffmann in 2009, when she replaced an ill Kathleen Kim around Christmastime.
But she made the pair of outings count, interpolating an A flat that was, at the time, the highest note ever on the Met stage.
Quite a way to understudy.
ZACHARY WOOLFE At 45 seconds Urgent Finale The radical legacy of the composer Robert Ashley is not hard to discern in Paul Pintos impressive new chamber opera, Thomas Paine in Violence, which runs through Nov. 18.
Even if this production did not feature Joan La Barbara the vocalist, composer and longtime Ashley collaborator fans of postmodern music theater would still sense some of Mr. Pintos stylistic debts.
To wit: Early on, the audience is told that Ms. La Barbara is, in fact, the spirit of Thomas Paine, broadcasting a radio program from space.
Its easy to accept this opening provocation, thanks to febrile writing that accompanies the absurdism.
At first, the work is driven by a generously amplified electronic sound design, as well as a quartet of vocalists who chime in alongside Ms. La Barbaras hypnotic solo part.
But the work hits a new expressive level in its closing section, after cello, harp, piano and violin have been added to the ensemble.
As new harmonies (and characters) appear, Mr. Pintos adaptation of Paines writing becomes a bit less arch, and all the more affecting.
The urgency of the operas final 15 minutes is what you may recall most.
SETH COLTER WALLS AT 1 MINUTE 7 SECONDS Florid and Fast A generation ago there were some superb countertenors around, but not that many.
More recently, fine young countertenors just keep appearing on the scene.
This week Jakub Jozef Orlinski , 26, won a hearty ovation for his melting performance of a ruminative aria from Paola Prestinis recent opera Gilgamesh, part of the American Composers Orchestras 40th-birthday concert.
Countertenors are essential to Baroque opera, of course.
Here is Mr. Orlinksi sounding very much at home in a virtuosic aria from Vivaldis Il Tigrane.
This breathless music whisks by, so dont miss the moment in the darker middle section when Mr. Orlinski confidently dispatches some florid, fast passagework.
ANTHONY TOMMASINI Read our review of the American Composers Orchestra concert.
AT 27 MINUTES 59 SECONDS Desperately Dancing If there was any blemish in the New York Philharmonics cycle of Leonard Bernsteins symphonies, it was the piano solos in the Second Symphony, The Age of Anxiety.
The jazz pianist Makoto Ozone injected a long improvised cadenza toward the end of the pieces otherwise meditative finale, and played the jazzy scherzo movement, The Masque, with awkward caution.
There will be other opportunities to hear the symphony this season Jean-Yves Thibaudet plays the solo part with the Boston Symphony Orchestra at Carnegie Hall in the spring but in the meantime plenty of worthwhile recordings exist online.
One, with a young Krystian Zimerman at the piano, led by Bernstein himself, perfectly captures the scherzos uninhibited spirit: its insecurity, nave obstinacy and, ultimately, desperation.
JOSHUA BARONE at 3 minutes 34 seconds Starting to Swing The composer Francis Thorne, who died in March at 94, had many facets to his career.
In his early days he was an accomplished jazz pianist, and the influence of jazz courses through many of his concert works.
His Piano Concerto No.
3, a piece recorded brilliantly by Ursula Oppens , deftly blends jazz and modernist styles.
Mr. Thorne was also the primary founder of the invaluable American Composers Orchestra , which began its 40th-birthday concert with his exuberant Fanfare, Fugue and Funk.
Heres a piece that shows another, more pensive side of Thornes music: the Adagietto Cantabile movement from his Symphony No.
6 for Stringed Instruments (1992).
Every moment matters in this ruminative yet somehow intense and harmonically piercing music.
But catch the playful bit a few minutes in, when things ever so briefly start to swing.
ANTHONY TOMMASINI AT 2 minutes 30 seconds German Nightingale Lest you thought I had let you off the hook on high notes, heres a YouTube rabbit hole you might not want to join me down: Erna Sack, the so-called German Nightingale, who dazzled before the Second World War and was known for the agility and purity of the very top of her range, up to a quick but clear C above high C. Check out this little cadenza in Johann Strauss IIs Frhlingsstimmen waltz.
(And then go on to this , this and...) ZACHARY WOOLFE Sign up for the Louder Newsletter Stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics.
SEE SAMPLE Please verify youre not a robot by clicking the box.
* Required field You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times products and services.
You are already subscribed to this email.
Sign Up
Typically, he said, after such investments, the only legacy of those exhibitions was a catalog.
The most logical extension of this fleeting experience, he said, is a film, with a long shelf life and a huge audience.
Mr. Katz had not considered himself a serious student in high school and entered college contemplating a career in journalism or theater.
He appeared in plays while in college and performed sock-puppet shows for children on weekends, but abandoned thoughts of a theatrical career after he was found to have a minor speech impediment and had what he described, without elaborating, as an unfortunate onstage experience while performing in an Ibsen play.
His epiphany was a 90-minute standing-room-only lecture without notes at Columbia by the art historian Meyer Schapiro in which connections were made like so many synapses firing everything from psychoanalysis and religion to politics and semiotics, Mr. Katz wrote in his autobiography, The Exhibitionist: Living Museums, Loving Museums (2016).
Photo Those 90 minutes sealed the deal, he wrote.
I would study art history and archaeology.
Karl L. Katz his son said the middle initial did not stand for anything was born on Oct. 22, 1929, in Brooklyn to Maurice Katz, a salesman, and the former Rose Leibovitz, both of whom were active in Jewish and Zionist causes.
A yeshiva student, he graduated from Midwood High School in Brooklyn and was muddling his way through Long Island University when his older brother suggested he transfer to Columbias School of General Studies, which had been reorganized into an undergraduate college after World War II to accommodate returning veterans.
He earned a bachelors degree in art history and Semitic studies and a masters in fine arts and archaeology at Columbia.
He completed his doctoral thesis in early Hebrew manuscripts from Yemen but never fulfilled the language requirement for his doctorate; he said he could not bring himself to learn German so soon after the Holocaust.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In addition to his son, Mr. Katz, who lived in Manhattan, is survived by his wife, the former Elizabeth Segal, whom he married in 1978, and his brother, Elihu.
Mr. Katz began his career when he was recruited in 1953 as an educator at the Met during the exhibition From the Land of the Bible.
He then went to Israel as an archaeologist and was hired as curator of the National Bezalel Museum, the forerunner to the Israel Museum, on which he collaborated with Teddy Kollek, the mayor of Jerusalem.
After 13 years in Israel, he returned to New York in 1969 to become director of the Jewish Museum, where he sought to reconcile its liturgical agenda with more contemporary art.
He left in 1971 to rejoin the Met as chairman for special projects, a job he held until 1980.
He then directed the museums office of film and television until 1991, when he founded Muse.
Among the documentaries that company has produced are Degenerate Art (1993), about an exhibition commissioned by Hitler to denigrate modern art; Ai Weiwei: Never Sorry (2012), about the Chinese artist and activist; and Herb & Dorothy (2008), about the art collectors Herbert and Dorothy Vogel.
In the early 1970s, after the Jewish Museum presented an exhibition curated by the photographer Cornell Capa, Mr. Katz persuaded Mr. Capa that his International Center for Photography needed a museum to house its collection.
It opened in 1974 in a former mansion on Fifth Avenue.
Asked in 1997 by The Times to draw on his many professional incarnations to define art, Mr. Katz replied: People look at art as if it were a checklist; the label is sometimes more important than the work of art.
My sense is that looking at art is like having a conversation, he continued.
If its not visual and its not visceral and its not communicative, its not a work of art.
VIENNA Its been nearly a century since the Austrian painter Egon Schiele died, but his art charged with erotic energy and usually showing more than a little skin still ruffles feathers.
A series of advertisements showing Schieles graphically contorted bodies (with explicitly rendered private parts) didnt make it past the critical eyes of those selling advertising space in Britain and Germany nor the anti-nudity restrictions on Facebook.
The artworks had to be covered up.
Both Schiele and his mentor, the painter Gustav Klimt, died in 1918, the same year World War I and the Austro-Hungarian empire ended.
In 2018, museums in Vienna will mount a yearlong series of exhibitions and events to mark the centennial: Stairway to Klimt begins at Viennas Kunsthistorisches Museum on Feb. 13; Egon Schiele, Expression and Lyricism opens at the Leopold Museum on Feb. 23.
Viennas Tourist Board has also been working on a campaign celebrating these and other big-draw exhibitions, and Viennese modernism in general.
But the campaign ran into an unusual glitch the offices originally planned posters, featuring large Schiele nudes, turned out to be too racy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story According to a Vienna Tourist Board spokeswoman, Helena Hartlauer, Transport for London rejected the original images, citing trepidation about depicting genitals in public space.
Photo This years Broadway production of 1984 will be ineligible for Tony Awards because the production refused to allow the journalist Jose Antonio Vargas, who is a member of the nominating committee, to see the play.
The plays lead producer, Scott Rudin, did not explain why Mr. Vargas was denied access, and neither Mr. Rudin nor Mr. Vargas immediately offered any comment.
Another lead producer, Sonia Friedman, said, I dont have a comment on the matter other than I am disappointed with the outcome.
The Tony Awards administration committee made the unusual decision to disqualify 1984 during a meeting on Thursday.
The awards rules require that producers invite all members of the Tony nominating committee there are currently 49 to a performance.
Photo It was determined that not all elements of the required eligibility were fulfilled, the awards administrators said in a statement Friday.
Both the production and the committee have discussed the matter in private.
While all parties involved do not necessarily agree on the outcome, all parties agree that the issue was handled properly.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story A Tonys spokeswoman would not confirm that Mr. Vargas was denied access to the play, but several theater industry leaders confirmed that he was the excluded nominator.
Last season, his first as a Tony nominator, he recused himself from voting.
Advertisement The Playlist: Eminem Reflects, Sturgill Simpson Busks and 11 More New Songs Image Eminems Walk on Water, from his upcoming Revival album, has both deft turns of phrase and deeply awkward moments.
Credit Evan Agostini/Invision, via Associated Press Every Friday, pop critics for The New York Times weigh in on the weeks most notable new songs and videos and anything else that strikes them as intriguing.
This week, Elvis Costello croons on a new soundtrack song, Superchunk issues a blast of disillusionment and Betty Davis delivers a dose of F.U.N.K.
Just want the music?
Listen to this Playlist on Spotify here (or find our profile: nytimes).
Like what you hear?
Let us know at theplaylist@nytimes.com and sign up for our Louder newsletter, a once-a-week blast of our pop music coverage, here .
Eminem featuring Beyonc, Walk on Water On the new Eminem single, there is no sense of mischief or joy, no sense of danger or devastation.
Instead Eminem, once a master of playful extremes, is in excavation mode, assessing his diminished place in pop culture, and wondering if all the effort it requires to be him and to spin the gold he has spun is worth undertaking once more.
Walk on Water the first single from his forthcoming album, Revival is grim and ponderous and, to its credit, seems to understand that it might be perceived as grim and ponderous.
Butterflies rip apart my stomach, he raps, knowing that no matter what bars I come with/youre gonna harp, gripe/and thats a hard Vicodin to swallow.
Eminem has been self-lacerating before, but perhaps never this soberly.
And there are feelings here that are alarmingly, and arrestingly, stark: Always in search of the verse that I havent spit yet/Will this step just be another misstep/To tarnish whatever the legacy, love or respect Ive garnered?
Rapping about rapping is among his strongest skills, but for every deft turn of phrase here, there are deeply awkward moments, too (Its true, Im a Rubiks/A beautiful mess).
A song like this, misguided though it may be Beyonc sings the chorus, reduced to an unimaginative avatar of dignity and goodness, and Rick Rubin produces whats little more than a glum piano can only come from a place of savvy.
Eminem is alive to the way he is seen, and astute enough to know he has few moves available to him, especially in a cultural moment likely to abjure his scathing, violent early work.
Now Im getting clowned and frowned on, he laments.
Still, considering that for almost two decades Eminem has been, for white rappers, both the high-water mark and also the most visible and theatrical personality, it is astonishing to hear him rapping in mood, tone and, sometimes, pattern like Macklemore.
JON CARAMANICA Sturgill Simpson on Facebook Live Outside the Country Music Association Awards You could call it a protest, but that would imply that Sturgill Simpson actually cared deeply about what was happening inside the Bridgestone Arena in Nashville on Wednesday night at the annual Country Music Association Awards.
It seems very likely he did not.
Mr. Simpson won this years Grammy for best country album, but has little in common with the genres mainstream, which is what the C.M.A.s celebrate.
He wasnt bitter, though.
Instead, he set up on the street outside, opened up his guitar case (with his Grammy inside) to take donations for the A.C.L.U.
and took questions from fans on Facebook Live.
He played a couple of songs, spoke of his love for bluegrass and Kanye West, and when asked to deliver a hypothetical C.M.A.
acceptance speech, said this: Nobody needs a machine gun, coming from a guy who owns quite a few guns.
He continued: Gay people should have the right to be happy and live their life any way they want to and get married if they want to without fear of getting drug down the road behind a pickup truck.
Black people are probably tired of getting shot in the streets and being enslaved by the industrial prison complex.
And hegemony and fascism is alive and well in Nashville, Tenn.
Thank you very much.
That, for sure, was a protest.
J.C. Elvis Costello, You Shouldnt Look at Me That Way Elvis Costello is in crooner mode for You Shouldnt Look at Me That Way from the soundtrack of Film Stars Dont Die in Liverpool, about the later years of a faded movie actress.
Its a piano waltz backed by an orchestra, a throwback style neatly suited to thoughts about the ravages of time and mortality: From the first flush of affection/to avoiding your own reflection.
JON PARELES Evanescence, My Heart Is Broken Should you be nostalgic for the self-confident rock n roll urgency of the mid-2000s, take comfort in the fact that no amount of social, cultural or political change has convinced Evanescence to veer from its lite-opera-rock theater.
My Heart Is Broken is one of the better songs on Synthesis, the groups fourth album and first since 2011, which sounds like an only mildly restrained version of its earliest work.
Amy Lees voice remains vibrant, soaring and sweet.
She makes disappointment sound like romance.
J.C. Superchunk, What a Time to Be Alive To see the rot in no disguise/Oh what a time to be alive, Mac McCaughan of Superchunk sings in the title song from an album due in February.
The distorted blare and galloping beat are true to the bands indie-rock beginnings, back in 1989; the furious disillusionment is from right now.
J.P. Ron Miles, Is There Room in Your Heart for a Man Like Me On his remarkable new album, I Am a Man, the trumpeter Ron Miles nestles his light and buoyant sound inside compositions that bespeak an aching memory and a righteous ambition.
He has convened an all-star quintet, with Jason Moran on piano, Bill Frisell on guitar, Thomas Morgan on bass and Brian Blade on drums.
They play seven Miles originals meditating on the revolutionary potential of spirituality, and the need to reject political oppression.
On the albums epic finale, Is There Room in Your Heart for a Man Like Me, tension builds around two repeated notes, just a half-step apart, before opening onto a slowly ascending landscape of twirling, laconic melodies and subtly dazzling interplay.
GIOVANNI RUSSONELLO Little Simz featuring Tilla, Poison Ivy Simbiatu Ajikawo, the British songwriter who calls herself Little Simz, raps, sings and plays guitar in Poison Ivy, a tale of a toxic romance that she cant pull away from.
Its minor-key groove transforms itself into R&B, psychedelia and North African desert blues, circling through four chords that offer no way out.
J.P. Fuse ODG featuring Ed Sheeran and Mugeez, Boa Me On , the most recent album from Ed Sheeran, he teamed up with the Ghanaian-British rapper-singer Fuse ODG for a light, charming duet, Bibia Be Ye Ye.
Now, he has returned the favor, singing in Twi on Fuse ODGs new single, Boa Me, a song that effectively blends the two artists brands of exultant optimism.
J.C. Betty Davis, F.U.N.K.
F.U.N.K.
is part of Nasty Gal, the 1975 album by Betty Davis, who was briefly married to Miles Davis in the late 1960s; the full album is to be reissued early next year.
Raw and often raunchy funk was her calling; Ms. Davis rasps, teases, moans and screams through songs like F.U.N.K.
Its lyrics list a funk pantheon, while its groove, elaborated through the crosstalk of guitar and clavinet, and Ms. Daviss vehement, hopped-up vocals, tell a wilder story.
J.P. Oh Pep!, Half Life Half Life is a freeze frame at the moment of a breakup: We pull apart so patiently, sing the two women in the Australian folk-pop duo Oh Pep!
Theyre backed by a plush orchestra and a brisk drumbeat, sharing a melody thats both angular and affectionate, already looking toward the aftermath: You will become an echo of a sound once heard/scattered through my universe.
J.P. Errorsmith, Internet of Screws Errorsmith, which just released the album Superlative Fatigue, is the very occasional project of the electronic musician and software designer Erik Weigand; its previous album came out in 2004.
The music uses a bare handful of sounds in ways that are transparent, propulsive and, in tracks like Internet of Screws, downright comedic.
With its minimal vocabulary of syncopated drum taps, nearly nonstop mechanical blipping and silly, sliding tones, the track is like five minutes of sped-up slapstick.
J.P. Rez Abbasi, Propensity Unfiltered Universe is the third album in a trilogy from Rez Abbasi, a guitarist of Pakistani descent, who has used each record to look at a different South Asian musical tradition.
This one is focused on the Carnatic lineage of South India, and like the others it features Mr. Abbasis powerful band, Invocation: the saxophonist Rudresh Mahanthappa, the pianist Vijay Iyer, the cellist Elizabeth Mikhael, the bassist Johannes Weidenmueller and the drummer Dan Weiss.
On Propensity, each instrument seems to be advocating for a distinct interpretation of the songs rhythm; sparks flash between them.
Mr. Abbasi flies into the fray after a darting solo from Mr. Mahanthappa, using his creamy distortion and patient phrasing as a ballast in the swarm.
G.R.
Keith Urban, Female Dont do this.
J.C. Sign up for the Louder Newsletter Stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics.
SEE SAMPLE Please verify youre not a robot by clicking the box.
* Required field You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times products and services.
You are already subscribed to this email.
Sign Up
A Chronological Account of Melania Trumps Tour of Asia It would be weird to call her style evolution cuddly.
But it was definitely moving in that direction.
Photo Louis C.K.
on Friday released a statement in response to a report published Thursday in The New York Times about several women who stepped forward to discuss experiences with him in which he committed acts of sexual misconduct.
In his statement, Louis C.K.
said, These stories are true.
[Louis C.K.
Admits to Misconduct as Media Companies Cut Ties] The complete statement from Louis C.K.
appears below: I want to address the stories told to The New York Times by five women named Abby, Rebecca, Dana, Julia who felt able to name themselves and one who did not.
Video These stories are true.
At the time, I said to myself that what I did was O.K.
because I never showed a woman my dick without asking first, which is also true.
But what I learned later in life, too late, is that when you have power over another person, asking them to look at your dick isnt a question.
Its a predicament for them.
The power I had over these women is that they admired me.
And I wielded that power irresponsibly.
I have been remorseful of my actions.
And Ive tried to learn from them.
And run from them.
Now Im aware of the extent of the impact of my actions.
I learned yesterday the extent to which I left these women who admired me feeling badly about themselves and cautious around other men who would never have put them in that position.
I also took advantage of the fact that I was widely admired in my and their community, which disabled them from sharing their story and brought hardship to them when they tried because people who look up to me didnt want to hear it.
I didnt think that I was doing any of that because my position allowed me not to think about it.
There is nothing about this that I forgive myself for.
And I have to reconcile it with who I am.
Which is nothing compared to the task I left them with.
I wish I had reacted to their admiration of me by being a good example to them as a man and given them some guidance as a comedian, including because I admired their work.
The hardest regret to live with is what youve done to hurt someone else.
And I can hardly wrap my head around the scope of hurt I brought on them.
Id be remiss to exclude the hurt that Ive brought on people who I work with and have worked with whos professional and personal lives have been impacted by all of this, including projects currently in production: the cast and crew of Better Things, Baskets, The Cops, One Mississippi, and I Love You, Daddy.
I deeply regret that this has brought negative attention to my manager Dave Becky who only tried to mediate a situation that I caused.
Ive brought anguish and hardship to the people at FX who have given me so much The Orchard who took a chance on my movie.
and every other entity that has bet on me through the years.
Ive brought pain to my family, my friends, my children and their mother.
I have spent my long and lucky career talking and saying anything I want.
I will now step back and take a long time to listen.
Thank you for reading.
Hes so beautifully thought out, said Robbys owner, Bill Malone, 70, of Studio City, Calif.
Forbidden Planet would not have worked had Robby been a boiler-pot robot from the 1940s.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get expert TV and movie recommendations from the Watching newsletter The best of what to watch and where to watch it, delivered to your inbox twice a week.
Robby was built mainly of Royalite, an ABS plastic often used for luggage, by a team of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer designers and technicians for approximately $100,000.
His electronics could be activated via an offstage control panel connected by a cable, or by an operator inside the costume who conducted the actual movement.
As a kid, Mr. Malone said, I totally believed he was real.
Bonhams is selling Robby along with the control panel, a futuristic land vehicle he piloted on planet Altair IV, and his original M.G.M.
packing crates.
The studio sold the lot in 1970 to Jim Brucker, who displayed Robby at the now-defunct Movie World/Cars of Stars venue in Orange County, Calif. Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Malone bought the works from Mr. Brucker for pennies on the dollar in 1979; since then the robot has resided in Mr. Malones home.
Every morning Id have coffee with Robby, he said.
So why unload him now?
Im of an age where Im still healthy and doing good, Mr. Malone said, but I think its time to think about his future.
Were sending Robby to college.
Photo There are also practical considerations.
Mr. Malone recalled that someone once telephoned to ask, Is it O.K.
if I bring a couple of people over?
And he drove up in a Greyhound bus with a bunch of Japanese people, as if I were part of the Universal tour, he continued.
I think people need to see him in a museum setting.
It was tough working with a robot who didnt talk, said Earl Holliman, 89, the last surviving major player in Forbidden Planet.
Whenever I talked to Robby, the lines would be delivered by the script supervisor, who was sitting next to the cameraman.
It was kind of awkward.
Still, as the cook of United Planets Cruiser C-57D, Mr. Holliman forged a bond with Robby when the robot distilled 60 gallons of bourbon for him.
Hes been a friend for 62 years, Mr. Holliman said, and I hope that whoever gets him keeps him well lubricated.
Advertisement Ten Things to Do in NYC Now Its a big city, with plenty to do, see, hear and watch.
Heres a sampling of cultural highlights this weekend and over the week ahead.
Image Isamu Noguchis Noodle (1943-1944), center, part of the Self-Interned exhibition at the Noguchi Museum.
Credit Michael Nagle for The New York Times ART & MUSEUMS Conceived in Confinement Self-Interned, 1942: Noguchi in Poston War Relocation Center at the Noguchi Museum The detainment of more than 100,000 Japanese-Americans during World War II was aimed at citizens on the West Coast.
New Yorkers were exempt, but the sculptor Isamu Noguchi, then 37, went anyway.
This exhibition, through Jan. 7, features documents and works made from driftwood dating from the seven months Noguchi spent in a camp near the Arizona-California border, where he tried, and failed, to improve living conditions for his fellow Japanese-Americans.
J ASON FARAGO See mini-reviews of current exhibitions.
Image Madison Wolfe in I Kill Giants, part of My First Film Fest 2. Credit XYZ Films FOR CHILDREN From Light Animation to Adolescent Angst My First Film Fest 2 at the Walter Reade Theater Dont be fooled by the title.
While the second annual edition of this cinematic weekend from the Film Society of Lincoln Center offers plenty of fare for 6-year-olds, its Friday-through-Sunday screenings include four features, like the 1997 Hayao Miyazaki classic, Princess Mononoke , geared strictly to teenagers.
Anders Walters I Kill Giants , based on a comic-book series by Joe Kelly, explores the turbulent inner life of a bullied adolescent girl; Bruce McDonalds Weirdos , set in 1976, follows the odyssey of a hitchhiking, Warhol-besotted 15-year-old and his girlfriend; and Polina , by Valrie Mller and Angelin Preljocaj, focuses on a driven Russian dancer.
Younger viewers can gain new perspectives from the documentary Miss Kiets Children , by Peter Lataster and Petra Lataster-Czisch, which goes inside a Dutch elementary school classroom filled with Middle Eastern immigrants.
And one unusual opportunity involves a not-yet-finished film: Carlos Saldanha will show footage from his comedy Ferdinand and then lead audience members in an animation workshop.
LAUREL GRAEBER Find more events for children and families.
Image Eric Berryman, standing, and, in the video monitor, Jasper McGruder and Philip Moore, in The B Side.
Credit Sara Krulwich/The New York Times THEATER Soulful Sounds From the Big House The B-Side at the Performing Garage Eric Berryman, who conceived this record album interpretation (closing Nov. 19) with members of the Wooster Group, takes the needle off Negro Folklore From Texas State Prisons, a 1965 compilation of music performed by inmates.
Ben Brantley wrote, This is music that feels viral not in the technological sense of current usage, but in the sense of residing in the bloodstream .
ALEXIS SOLOSKI Read the full review.
Our guide to plays and musicals coming to New York stages, and a few last-chance picks of shows that are about to close.
Image After a hiatus to become a mother, Janet Jackson is back on tour and coming to Barclays Center.
Credit Farrenton Grigsby POP & ROCK A Treat for Those Who Miss Her Much Janet Jackson at Barclays Center The last two years have asked patience of fans of Janet Jackson, who postponed and then canceled concerts starting in 2015, citing her desire to start a family.
Now the singer, who became a mother in January, is back on the road with an arena tour drawing strong reviews.
At this show, 8 p.m. on Wednesday, expect energetic choreography, confident vocals and a set emphasizing her politically pointed 1989 album, Rhythm Nation 1814.
SIMON VOZICK-LEVINSON More pop and rock concerts.
Image Chris Gethard, part of Regular Comedy at Villain.
Credit Sara Krulwich/The New York Times COMEDY Stand-Up by the Riverside Regular Comedy at Villain This New York Comedy Festival edition of the long-running weekly stand-up series hosted by Will Miles, Kenny DeForest, and Clark Jones at 9:30 p.m. on Friday moves from its regular location at the Knitting Factory to Villain, the waterfront Brooklyn venue.
They have invited some of New Yorks favorite comedians, including the lovably neurotic Chris Gethard as well as the disarming queen of deadpan, Aparna Nancherla, and many others.
KASIA PILAT See who else is making New Yorkers laugh this week.
Image Roswell Rudd, who will be honored at Dizzys Club Coca-Cola.
Credit Jacob Blickenstaff for The New York Times JAZZ Major Props for a Horn Player Roswell Rudd Birthday Celebration at Dizzys Club Coca-Cola Mr. Rudd is a trombonist of bulbous tone and lively, free-ranging attack.
He started in New Yorks 1960s jazz avant-garde, but today tends toward a gentler beauty.
His new album, Embrace, features the vocalist Fay Victor, the pianist Lafayette Harris and the bassist Ken Filiano.
Mr. Rudd recently received a diagnosis of cancer and will not be at these shows, at 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. on Thursday.
But the Embrace band will, along with the vocalist Sheila Jordan and other all-stars.
GIOVANNI RUSSONELLO Find more jazz shows for the coming week.
Image Robyn Kerr, left, is a farmer's wife introduced to the power of writing by Devin E. Haqq in "Knives in Hens."
Credit Emon Hassan for The New York Times THEATER Revealing the Worlds Within Words Knives in Hens at 59E59 Theaters David Harrowers play (closing on Nov. 12) about a woman, a farmer, a miller and the worlds that unfurl when language is learned speaks its last sentence.
This 1995 play, written long before Mr. Harrowers Blackbird, had Ben Brantley thinking, But where have you been all my life?
ALEXIS SOLOSKI Read the full review.
Our guide to plays and musicals coming to New York stages, and a few last-chance picks of shows that are about to close.
Image Benjamin Grosvenor is coming to the 92nd Street Y.
See listing below.
Credit Amy T. Zielinski/Redferns, via Getty Images CLASSICAL MUSIC Standing Tall Among Giants Benjamin Grosvenor at the 92nd Street Y Other young pianists may garner more headlines, but Benjamin Grosvenor may well be the most cultivated member of a generation overflowing with talent.
This program, which takes place at 7:30 p.m. on Wednesday, is characteristically thoughtful: Bachs French Suite No.
5; Brahmss Op.
119 pieces, interspersed with Brett Deans Hommage Brahms; an arrangement of Debussys Prelude lAprs-Midi dUn Faune; Bergs Piano Sonata; and, as if all that were not challenge enough, Ravels Gaspard de la Nuit.
DAVID ALLEN See a list of mini-reviews for more current productions.
Image An image from "12th and Clairmount," screening at DOC NYC.
Credit FILM SERIES Slices of Life and History From Multiple Perspectives DOC NYC at various locations The weeklong DOC NYC, through Nov. 16, offers any kind of documentary you might imagine.
A mystery?
In Wormwood (Friday), Errol Morris finds a riveting subject in Eric Olson, a psychologist who has spent his life figuring out what happened to his father, who died in 1953 under suspicious circumstances.
In Barbara Kopples A Murder in Mansfield (Sunday), a man who as a child testified against his father in the murder of his mother seeks closure.
Other highlights: EuroTrump (Friday), a portrait of the far-right Dutch politician Geert Wilders, and 12th and Clairmount (Thursday), which constructs an account of the 1967 Detroit uprising from archival footage and audio testimony.
BEN KENIGSBERG See a guide to film series and screenings in New York.
Image Company XIVs Nutcracker Rouge puts a risqu spin on a holiday classic.
Credit Mark Shelby Perry DANCE Sugarplum Burlesque Company XIV at Thtre XIV, Brooklyn Nutcracker Rouge is what happens when a holiday tradition about a journey through a land of sweets gets a dose of spice and a shot of sexuality.
Put the kids to bed, then indulge in this adults-only burlesque fairy tale featuring a mix of song, dance and circus with visual decadence and a coquettish vibe.
This year, at various times through Jan. 14, the party transfers to Company XIVs new, permanent home in Bushwick.
BRIAN SCHAEFER See whats happening around the citys dance scene.
And Theres More What to cook this weekend and what to read this week .
Sign up for the Louder Newsletter Stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics.
SEE SAMPLE Please verify youre not a robot by clicking the box.
* Required field You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times products and services.
You are already subscribed to this email.
Sign Up
Photo Moment by moment, Hofesh Shechters Grand Finale looks masterly.
All the imagery is attention-grabbing; frequently the stage shows three or more different sequences at once.
Though the dancing features no academic virtuosity, its often forceful.
The 10 performers seem driven by intense energies that combine folk dance with expressionism and they look impressively sincere.
Everything in Grand Finale, at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, looks and sounds doom-laden, even the occasional outbursts of happiness.
Bodies often look lifeless, sometimes while others lift or support them.
In one section, silent screams abound.
Tom Vissers apocalyptic lighting penetrating from above as if through clouds of smoke or dust is grimly picturesque.
Tom Scutts dcor, with tall rectangular screens moving around the stage like silhouetted walls, makes the space dramatic.
The dancers are dressed to look modern, everyday, devoid of artifice.
This is plotless dance-theater, a collage in different moods.
At regular intervals, six musicians appear in various parts of the stage, playing calmly or sweetly despite the scenes of devastation elsewhere; theyre the band on the Titanic.
(When the audience returns from intermission, theyre still blithely playing Franz Lehars Merry Widow waltz and a corpselike figure remains unmoved beneath the curtain.)
Taped music includes rhythmic thuds, fiercely percussive rock-style beats, and fragments of classical music by Tchaikovsky and Vladimir Zaldwich.
(The overall score is Mr. Shechters own; the mixture of live music and taped sound, of familiar music and modern sonorities, characterizes much of his work.)
You can see why Mr. Shechter has been a successful collaborator in many theatrical productions: Hes good on the overlap between lifes joys and doom, as seen in his atmospheric contributions in 2015 to both the Broadway production of Fiddler on the Roof and the Royal Opera staging of Glucks Orphe et Eurydice.
His own productions, however, are disagreeably manipulative.
In Grand Finale, several of his images are far from original.
Samuel Beckett used the Merry Widow waltz amid a scene of desolation as a concluding stroke in Happy Days.
Other events in this production have long been clichs.
The band on the Titanic is a stock device.
As for those silent screams, see Munch, Brecht and Kenneth MacMillan, among others.
Worse than being unoriginal, though, Grand Finale soon becomes an array of mere effects.
Both its fleeting happiness and its pervasive devastation turn into theatrical devices, coldly compiled like filmic montage.
And those sincere dancers turn into pawns in Mr. Shechters controlling game.
Kenneth MacMillan was the dark genius of British ballet its destroyer, if you listen to some, the critic Ismene Brown wrote in an article about the celebration in The Spectator magazine.
But it wasnt just MacMillans subject matter, which could include rape (The Invitation), incest (My Brother, My Sisters) and sexual sadism (Mayerling), that bothered critics.
It was also his use of ballet technique to suggest states of extreme emotion and erotic desire.
In 1981, in a piece about the Royal Ballets 50th-birthday season at the Metropolitan Opera House in New York, Arlene Croce wrote that the danger to the pearly classicism of the Ashtonian style is from this new religiose preoccupation with the human body and its contortions which is now so pronounced in MacMillans ballets.
Photo Looking at his ballets now, their physical demands look tame compared to the athletic requirements of many current ballet choreographers.
And if his subject matter is sometimes brutal, the choreographic content is mostly firmly classical, though often extended into new expressive terrain.
In MacMillans 1965 masterwork, Song of the Earth, beautifully danced at the celebration by English National Ballet, the gestures and imagery are idiosyncratic and strange, sometimes alluding to the Chinese Tang poems used (in German translation) by Mahler in the score.
Women delicately mime picking flowers, or are turned upside down when the text, sung onstage by a tenor and mezzo-soprano, alludes to a pavilion reflected in water.
But these details and vignettes are part of an austere classicism, rather than a new choreographic language, slowly building to evoke a poetic and specific world.
More surprising, because less well-known, was Concerto, the first work that MacMillan made when he took up a new job as the artistic director of Deutsche Oper Ballet in Berlin in 1966.
(He returned to England in 1969 to take up the directorship of the Royal Ballet.)
Concerto, danced in the celebration by the Birmingham Royal Ballet, is a bright, pure exercise in ballet classicism, set to Shostakovichs Piano Concerto No.
2, and, among other things, its a brilliant demonstration of MacMillans musicality, not an aspect of his work I had previously considered.
The musics jazziness is echoed in the hip-tilted inflections of the first and third sections, and its marching rhythms are reflected, without emphasis, in the phalanxes of moving bodies that might refer to armies or to the militaristic drill of the corps de ballet.
Photo But its the second movement, an Adagio, that is most affecting.
Here, a woman holds on to a man, executing a smooth, flowing sequence of arcing bends and languorous stretches.
(MacMillan said he was inspired by watching Lynn Seymour, a longtime muse, warm up at the barre.)
Its particularly interesting in the light of current thoughts on the conventionality of male-female partnering in ballet; here is a moment in which the man is cast as nothing more than a support and yet MacMillan creates something poetic and ambiguous in the matter-of-fact relationship: What are they thinking when their eyes meet at the end?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Other MacMillan pieces feel less important or interesting; the 1974 Elite Syncopations (performed by a mix of principals from different companies) is set to music by Scott Joplin and other ragtime composers, and its insistent perkiness and slightly hammy jokes pall, even though it is choreographically challenging and smoothly constructed.
Gloria (well danced by Northern Ballet), created in 1980 and set to Poulenc, is both moving and slightly dated in feel (this is partly a costume problem), with a ballet vocabulary that makes much of the physical tension between soaring uplift and grounded, earthbound despair.
And then there is perhaps the most difficult ballet in the MacMillan oeuvre, The Judas Tree.
Set on a construction site in the London Docklands, it features a single woman and 12 male laborers.
The woman, both seductress and victim, is raped by the men, before one of them is murdered and another commits suicide.
There are biblical allusions to Jesus, Mary, Judas and perhaps another disciple, but the story line is muddled and hard to interpret.
(Who is Judas, I kept wondering.)
The choreography, however, is excellent: inventive, expressionistic, surprising, emotionally compelling.
You cant look; you cant look away.
Its an impossible ballet to like, though, and in light of the Harvey Weinstein revelations and their repercussions, hard questions become even harder.
Does the aesthetic beauty of ballet tame and make palatable the violence we see onstage?
Or does it show us aspects of human behavior we shy away from, especially in an opera house?
Do we judge the subject matter or the art, and are they different things?
These are questions that have in some ways haunted MacMillans work from early on.
This 25th anniversary celebration made a strong case for his position as a major 20th-century artist without providing neat answers.
The piece touched a nerve with audiences, but it was the one-minute section about Apu that people most remembered.
Why not make a full-length documentary about his issues with the Kwik-E-Mart owner, Mr. Kondabolu thought, which could serve as a jumping-off point to talk about all the other things the comic had been stewing about?
Working with the director Michael Melamedoff, the film crew began production in April 2016, greenlit by truTV as part of its shift to comedy programming.
To tackle the project, he enlisted some high-powered help.
In one sequence, the actor Aziz Ansari (Master of None) describes being in a car with his dad when a man drives up and asks them where the nearest Quik-E-Mart is.
Dr. Vivek Murthy, the 19th surgeon general of the United States, talks about enduring the taunts of an Apu-imitating bully in the seventh grade.
And Maulik Pancholy (30 Rock) recounts how much he hated going into 7-Eleven stores as a kid, lest his friends see an Indian store clerk and start doing the Apu thing.
In the film, Mr. Kondabolu places Apu within the broader history of Hollywoods depiction of Indians, including Peter Sellerss brownface rendition of an idiot in the 1968 Blake Edwards film The Party and the Indians feasting on chilled monkey brains in Steven Spielbergs Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom.
He also reached out to a whos-who of South Asian actors to talk about their experiences in Hollywood, in the vein of Philip Kan Gotandas 1987 play Yankee Dawg You Die and Mr. Ansaris 2015 Master of None episode Indians on TV.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Among the anecdotes: Sakina Jaffrey (House of Cards) cornering the market on weeping, ethnic moms of potential rapists and murderers, and Mr. Penn being asked to play a character named Taj Mahal, which he credits with his subsequent starring roles in the Harold and Kumar movies.
For the record, Mr. Penn said in an interview, I had a great time doing it.
The narrative spine of the film, however, chronicles Mr. Kondabolus attempts to trace the characters origin story and secure an interview with Mr. Azaria, the voice of Apu since the characters creation in 1990.
In a 2007 interview, Mr. Azaria, who declined to comment for this article, conceded that his rendering of an Indian accent is not tremendously accurate.
Mr. Kondabolu agrees.
In the film, he describes Mr. Azarias rendition as a white guy doing an impression of a white guy making fun of my father.
Onscreen, Dana Gould, a writer and executive producer on The Simpsons, tries to explain what makes Apu humorous.
Barney, the town wino, is funny because hes a drunkard, he explains; Smithers, Mr. Burnss sycophantic assistant, is funny because hes closeted.
(Since that interview, Smithers has come out.)
Apu?
Hes funny because he sounds like an Indian, or at least Mr. Azarias version of one.
There are accents that by their nature, to white Americans, I can only speak from experience, sound funny, Mr. Gould says in the film.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story This isnt just a blind spot that the writers had, Mr. Melamedoff said.
This was a blind spot we all had, on a national level.
The unintended result: a generation of Indian actors being asked to channel Apu in countless auditions.
Here you are, youve gone to theater and film school, youre pursuing this dream, and youre being told, do it just like Apu from The Simpsons, Mr. Penn said in an interview.
Still unclear is who originally pushed for Apus broad accent.
Was Mr. Azaria asked by producers how offensive can you make it, as he claimed in that earlier interview?
Or did he come up with the accent unprompted, as the Simpsons writer Mike Reiss said in a 2016 podcast?
Mr. Kondabolu pressed Mr. Azaria for an interview.
The two exchanged emails, had one phone conversation (untaped) and even discussed the possibility of conducting the interview on neutral ground (on the podcast WTF With Marc Maron, say, or on NPRs Fresh Air, with Terry Gross).
Hari was sort of like, whats the purpose if I cant get Hank, said Utkarsh Ambudkar (Pitch Perfect), who, as Apus Indian-American nephew on a 2016 episode of the series, blasted Apu to his animated face as a sellout and a stereotype.
And I was like, are you kidding me?
Mr. Ambudkar said.
You got all these brown people to come together and talk about something.
We could have been talking about model trains!
But some 15-year-old kid is going to be like, look at all these powerful, talented, visible brown people in one place.
I can do this, too.
Photo Every son, at one point or other, defies his father, fights him, departs from him, only to return to him.
Those words were spoken by Leonard Bernstein at the 70th-birthday celebration for his father, in 1962.
But they could have come from the text the composer was writing at the time for Kaddish, his Symphony No.
3.
This much-debated work was given a gripping performance on Thursday evening by the New York Philharmonic at David Geffen Hall, conducted by Leonard Slatkin.
Photo Bernstein, who had complicated feelings about religion, conceived Kaddish as an argument with God.
Though scored for large orchestra, chorus (here the excellent Concert Chorale of New York), childrens chorus (the wonderful Brooklyn Youth Chorus) and soprano soloist (the rich-voiced Tamara Wilson), this 40-minute symphony is driven by Bernsteins text.
A speaker (the riveting actor Jeremy Irons), while praying to God, takes him on in the prosecutorial manner of an angry Job.
But if the texts focus is God, its also Bernsteins father, a Ukrainian immigrant who ran a successful hairdressing supplies business in Massachusetts.
Samuel Bernstein, James M. Keller explains in the Philharmonics program notes, eventually took pride in Leonards accomplishments but would have preferred his son continue in the family business or perhaps become a rabbi.
From the start of Kaddish, when the speaker addresses my father as angry, wrinkled old majesty, the words betray resentment and disappointment, like a dutiful son finally taking a stand.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Thats certainly Mr.
Irons, a master of understatement, delivered the text.
In the Din-Torah section, he began almost meekly.
You surely remember me, father?
he asked, almost dripping with unctuousness.
And always you have answered me, he continued, bitterness seeping through, with a rainbow, a raven, a plague, something.
Take that.
Photo When the speaker gets going, the choristers sometimes murmur nervously in the background.
The monologue mingles throughout the symphony with Bernsteins setting of the Kaddish, the traditional Jewish mourners prayer.
These episodes can shift from radiant writing to jittery passages of tangled, tense counterpoint.
In this teeming, vividly orchestrated symphony, Bernstein boldly draws from diverse styles, including episodes of wide-spaced, poignant harmonies evocative of Copland, and hurtling moments that screech with modernist intensity and break into 12-tone shards.
Its not like were going around burning holy books and peeing on national monuments, he said, after ordering a skim milk latte and a tartine poulet.
Outside the window, rainbow flags were as commonplace as stop signs.
It was just a piece of fabric.
Those are people saying that they exist, and someone had a problem with that.
Photo He added, wearily, I love what I do.
But it is frightening.
At times, the band has courted controversy, as when it canceled a 2012 gig opening for the Red Hot Chili Peppers to show solidarity with BDS, the movement calling for boycotts, divestment and sanctions against Israel.
But most often Mr. Sinnos sexuality is provocation enough.
The group has been banned from Jordan, twice.
And the second time they were much less polite about it, Mr. Sinno said.
They were just flat out, We dont want them because hes gay.
He rolled his eyes.
Really nice government.
The band is spending the fall in the United States, teaching a graduate course at New York University on the intersection of music and politics.
Mr. Sinno, a self-described pretentious writing snob (his lyrics teem with allusions to Sappho and Sylvia Plath), described the students as all extremely woke, and outlined a syllabus that includes Bertolt Brecht, Judith Butler and the French rap duo the Blaze.
On days off from teaching, the group is performing in cities including Philadelphia and Minneapolis.
My mother really doesnt want me to go back to Beirut, Mr. Sinno said.
Shes like, Stay in the states!
I cant afford a house here, woman!
Shes like, Ill buy you a house!
But Mr. Sinno, who has dual Lebanese and United States citizenship, doesnt feel much more at ease in America than he does in the Middle East, saying that the in your face racism he encounters here is at least as bad as the homophobia back home.
Last year, Mr. Sinno was at Le Bain, the nightclub in the meatpacking district, when a guy getting into an elevator shouted, Build the wall!
It took me a second to understand that he was talking to me, and that he thought I was Latino, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story That same trip, Mr. Sinno found himself torn after the mass shooting at the gay nightclub Pulse in Orlando, Fla., wanting to stand with the gay and lesbian community even as online trolls called him a terrorist.
Its literally disillusioning to have to do away with the romanticized narrative of the U.S. that I had, he said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.
He picked the chicken off his tartine.
This is stuff that only pretty people are allowed to eat, he said of the leftover bread.
I met this boy in San Francisco and hes, like, way out of my league.
While growing up in Beirut, Mr. Sinno found Western pop culture to be a lifeline.
With few representations of gay people in Lebanese culture, he sought refuge in Will & Grace and Oscar Wilde.
He discovered Allan Ginsberg during his freshman year at the American University of Beirut, where his mother teaches English.
He idolized grunge rockers like Eddie Vedder and Kurt Cobain (the love of my life) and went through a bit of a riot-grrrl moment.
Though Mr. Sinno is often compared to Freddie Mercury, in part because of his bushy mustache, he doesnt see the resemblance.
Mashrou Leila, which roughly translates as An Overnight Project, began in 2008, when someone in the universitys design department put up a sign for a musical workshop.
By 2012, the band had released two albums and was headlining Lebanese music festivals, and Mr. Sinno quit his job at an advertising firm.
Though he grew up speaking mostly English, he studied Arabic to write lyrics, with the goal of bringing poetry into Arabic pop music.
One song, Shim El Yasmine, or Smell the Jasmine (I would have liked to keep you near me, / Introduce you to my parents) has been described as Arab pops first gay love song.
The bands most recent album, Ibn El Leil (Son of the Night), was inspired in part by Mr. Sinnos period of escapism in Beirut nightclubs after the death of his father, a urologist.
I was where the booze was for quite some time, he said.
(He has been sober for almost a year.)
But, he added, clubs are necessarily political.
As he finished lunch, his phone began to blow up with texts from his bandmates, and he got a look of panic.
Another international incident?
No, nothing urgent, he said with both annoyance and relief.
When the bandmates return to Lebanon, they will face an uncertain future.
In the past two years, weve lost our two biggest markets, Jordan and Egypt, Mr. Sinno said glumly.
And will their fans still wave rainbow flags?
I think people are more likely to do that now than they were before.
Martine Ali Age 31 Hometown Chicago Now Lives In a minimal one-bedroom apartment in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, where the lights are seldom on but a record always is.
Claim to Fame Ms. Ali has a namesake line of unisex jewelry that evokes early 2000s hip-hop with its street-wear-inspired use of hardware staples like chains, dog tags and safety pins.
The line is carried by influential stores including Opening Ceremony and Kith, and the rapper Kendrick Lamar is a fan and has worn her bracelet, necklace and wallet chain on tour this year, as well as in several videos, including Humble and Element.
That was definitely the moment I saw a pretty literal spike in business and industry love, Ms. Ali said.
Kendrick made my designs recognizable.
And just this month Rihanna wore Ms. Alis bracelets and earring in her Lemon video with N.E.R.D, which the designer long considered a dream.
Big Break In 2010, while interning at DKNY, Ms. Ali would wear her homemade pieces around the office.
One day, her jewelry got noticed by Jane Chung, then the designer, who commissioned her to create pieces for the coming collection.
The day before the show, Donna Karan herself saw the pieces and asked if Ms. Ali could adapt them as handbag adornments.
After that it changed from a hobby to a skill and an asset, Ms. Ali said.
Photo Latest Project Ms. Ali created a jewelry collection for the Australian-American designer Matthew Adams Dolans spring 2018 fashion show that will be available at Opening Ceremony for the holidays under her name.
The collection, featuring delicate pieces rendered in gold and pearl, is a departure from her usual aesthetic (like if I were a painter going from oil to watercolor, she said) and feels decidedly more feminine.
Next Project She is collaborating with Assembly New York, a Lower East Side boutique, on a range of leather-and-silver accessories.
They do these really cool vinyl bags and other pieces that were going to mess with, she said.
I dont plan a lot, you know?
Shes the Boss In a retail world increasingly dominated by mega-brands and luxury conglomerates, Ms. Ali cherishes her freedom as a smaller, self-run brand with uninhibited creative control.
She believes that selling to customers directly from her website, and communicating with them through Instagram, sets her apart.
I cant tell you how valuable that is these days to be seen as a person and not Amazon, she said.
Ludlams Tamberlaine is already the president of Earth when the play begins.
But his insatiable appetite for power leads him to invade all the other planets in the solar system, starting with Mars, which is ruled by Bajazeth (Lenys Sam) and his queen, Zabina (Mr. Quinton, who also portrays Zabinas incestuous princely brother, Cosroe).
Accompanied by his bodacious first lady, Alice (Brian Belovitch), Tamberlaine rapes, pillages, castrates, decapitates and turns the monarchs of the universe he lets live into personal sex slaves.
(Warning to the squeamish: Polymorphous perversity aint pretty in the Ludlam cosmos.)
Alas, it is never enough.
And Tamberlaine, after taking time to see a degenerate Charles Ludlam play, is left to lament the lack of fresh worlds to conquer before arriving at a very untidy demise.
Extracting that plotline for you wasnt easy.
(Youre welcome.)
To discern it, a theatergoer must peer through a thick and tangled forest of cross-cultural references, stratospheric over-emoting and jokes (and X-rated sex) raunchy enough to bring a blush to the jaded cheeks of todays most lascivious powermongers.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Conquest, which runs a little over an hour and a half, has nothing like the formal symmetry or coherence that Ludlam would bring to his later works, like Camille and The Mystery of Irma Vep.
But it does reflect, almost blindingly, the central Ludlam tenet of creative line blurring between classical and pop, beautiful and ugly, sacred and profane, male and female, professional and amateur.
It has also been given an exceptionally lavish production or trash-lavish anyway with planets that dangle like chandeliers over Robert Savinas sprawling set and improbable costumes by Ramona Ponce that would be the envy of Lady Gaga.
Even if you find your eyes glazing (or your gag reflex overworking) from the too-muchness of it all, the cast seems to be having a high old time.
And why should it not?
These performers get to simulate the goriest of deaths, assume every position in the Kama Sutra and then some, and crib madly from sources like The Wizard of Oz, classic melodrama, Jacobean revenge tragedy, doo-wop music and vintage burlesque.
The dialogue includes such immortal phrases as A poisoned wedding cake, heavy with irony and Let him enter my chamber, this boy from Jupiter.
Mr. Quinton projects disciplined dementia in both his roles, intoning the interjection Sufferin Sappho with the sibilance of Sylvester the Cat and majestically declaiming the mock-Shakespearean couplet, I say to Jove, thy will be done./No more nookie til Tamberlaine is slain and overcome.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Theres plenty of real Shakespeare, too, as Mr. Neales winningly wild-eyed Tamberlaine borrows freely from the characters of Macbeth, Richard III, Titus Andronicus and, above all, one wacky Prince of Denmark.
The final scene of Conquest takes the wholesale carnage of Act V of Hamlet and multiplies it to the nth degree.
Death isnt dignified in Conquest, but it isnt terminal either.
On the contrary, it keeps happening over and over again, until youre reluctant to believe anyone, no matter how eviscerated, is down for the count.
The same would appear to be true of Ludlams dated but strangely prophetic early theater work.
Love em or hate em, his colliding queens fit right into todays climate of farcical tragedy, where its often hard to tell a scream from a laugh.
Photo The Salon Art + Design, opening on Friday, is arguably more inclusive than other fairs at the Park Avenue Armory.
Art, design and decorative arts can be found here, and the fair organizers stress that everything from high-ticket items to affordable objects for new collectors are on view, with galleries trying to read the taste of millennials with money to spend.
This year something new has been added: Digital art is a featured player.
And window shopping is definitely encouraged.
Some of the booths are set up like art galleries; others, like living rooms.
And while the east end of the old Park Avenue Armory twinkles with the interactive digital works, the booths near the entrance are showcasing modern masters like Warren McArthur and Josef Hoffmann.
Some of the works here have appeared in museums; others are making their debuts.
Here are some highlights from the fairs 56 galleries.
Bernard Goldberg Fine Arts Just inside the entrance, Mr. Goldberg, a New York gallerist, is showing the paintings of Winold Reiss, a German-born American artist who took a holistic approach to art and design.
Reiss created paintings, menus and even matchbooks for restaurants like Longchamps, a storied chain in New York.
Alongside Reisss paintings of the 1930s, the booth has furniture designed during the same period by McArthur, whose wealthy family commissioned a Frank Lloyd Wright house that may have served as an inspiration for it.
McArthur embraced the same machinist aesthetic as Reiss and was an Art Deco innovator who was among the first to use aluminum in furniture design.
Yves Macaux and Richard Nagy These two dealers have teamed up to create a stellar presentation of Expressionist art and design.
Mr. Nagy, a London dealer, has brought drawings by Egon Schiele, featuring nudes in curious positions, as well as a luridly colored portrait of a woman in a green blouse from around 1906, by Kees van Dongen, a Dutch-French painter.
A canvas by Ludwig Meidner shows two men scuffling and is graced with the wonderful title The Incident in the Suburbs (1915).
Mr. Macaux, a Brussels dealer, adds chairs, clocks and other decorative arts to the booth, made by designers like Hoffmann.
Several of the objects Mr. Macaux is showing have appeared in New Yorks home for Expressionism, the Neue Galerie.
Photo Galerie Maria Wettergren A striking example of contemporary design installed at Maria Wettergren is a sculpture by Mathias Bengtsson, an artist whose work is in the collections of MoMA and the Centre Georges Pompidou in Paris.
To make his Growth Chaise Longue (2017), Mr. Bengtsson used software to plant a digital seed in his design program that simulated organic growth.
He then created a three-dimensional print of the vinelike results and had it cast in bronze, joining ancient techniques with new ones in a curious and captivating object.
Photo Priveekollektie Contemporary Art | Design Another high-tech presentation is at the Dutch dealer Priveekollektie.
Lining the walls of the dark booth are digital and interactive pieces by the British artist Dominic Harris, whose work is currently installed in the Victoria & Albert Museum in London.
Using cameras and software, Mr. Harris captures pictures of animals and plants and then tweaks them, displaying the moving images on Ultra High Definition (UHD) screens to create what he calls living paintings.
The trick is that you can alter the picture somewhat, changing the time of day or the arrangement of flowers in a vase, making still life into something personal and mutable.
Joan B. Mirviss Ms. Mirviss, a New York dealer, specializes in Japanese ceramics.
The work of Sakiyama Takayuki, who lives on the Izu peninsula, 75 miles from Tokyo but reachable only by arduous travel approaches nature in a traditional medium.
His abstract, swirling stoneware sculptures, covered with a glaze made from local sand, reflect the movement of wind and waves in his remote habitat.
The titles of the works emphasize this: All begin with the word Choto, which translates roughly to the echo or sound of the waves.
Photo Pierre Marie Giraud More contemporary ceramics, as well as glass and lacquer objects, are found at the booth of this Brussels dealer.
Kristin McKirdy makes biomorphic ceramic sculptures, while Jean Girels sedate landscape vases are divided into horizontal registers of land, sea or sky or treat the surface as if it were a hazy Impressionist painting.
Giraud also has a roundup of ceramics by Japanese artists, including Yoshiro Kimuras works with electric-hued glazes; Takuro Kuwatas crater- and lava-like objects; and Ritsue Mishimas shimmering glass vessels.
Maison Gerard A lavish sofa from 1984 by Pucci de Rossi, the Italian-born Postmodernist, harks back to 19th-century Orientalist art and design, with a mash-up of references and materials, including velvet, hidden compartments and marbled wood and inlaid marquetry.
Gerard also has a commode made for the fashion designer Jean Patou, and a carved coffee table by Michael Coffey with a lazy Susan inside.
Mr. Coffey appears more prominently in Amy Laus booth.
Photo Amy Lau Design An interior designer rather than a gallerist, Ms. Lau has created a complete environment in her booth, emphasizing atmosphere (the booth has that title) as much as individual objects.
Ms. Lau is showcasing a massive wooden fireplace hand-carved by Mr. Coffey, with a bronze fireplace screen with porcelain accents designed by David Wiseman of Los Angeles.
Ms. Laus booth pays homage to Art Nouveau, with its sinuous lines and botanical references.
In a fair that is filled with a range of periods and sources, its a good lesson in how to make objects play together harmoniously, with neither art nor design dominating.
Even as Louis C.K.
remained one of the most popular and influential performers in comedy he has won multiple Emmy Awards for his stand-up specials and his semi-autobiographical FX series, Louie rumors about his misconduct had persisted for several years.
In a substantial rebuke, the FX Networks and FX Productions, which produce and broadcast several of his television shows, said Friday they were ending their association with him.
His overall production deal with FX was canceled, and he lost his role as executive producer as well as the compensation that came with that title on the FX comedy shows Better Things and Baskets, the Amazon series One Mississippi, and a TBS animated series, The Cops.
The One Mississippi star Tig Notaro, who had earlier criticized Louis C.K.
for not addressing his behavior, said after learning of FXs decision, My response is the lyrics to Johnny Nashs I Can See Clearly Now.
May the dark clouds continue to move.
Pamela Adlon, the star of Better Things, which she created with Louis C.K., a frequent performer in his work (including his film I Love You, Daddy), said on Friday that she was troubled by Louis C.K.s admission.
My family and I are devastated and in shock after the admission of abhorrent behavior by my friend and partner, Louis C.K., Ms. Adlon said in a statement.
I feel deep sorrow and empathy for the women who have come forward.
I am asking for privacy at this time for myself and my family.
I am processing and grieving and hope to say more as soon as I am able.
TBS said in its own statement that production on The Cops, which was planned for a 2018 debut, had been suspended until further review.
Also on Friday, 3 Arts Entertainment, which had been managing Louis C.K., dropped him as a client.
Two women who had experienced Louis C.K.s misconduct believed that his manager, Dave Becky, wanted them to stop talking about their encounter with him.
Mr. Becky denied making threats toward them.
And Lewis Kay, who had been the comedians publicist, said in a Twitter post Friday, As of today, I no longer represent Louis C.K.
In their statement, the FX companies said, Louis has now confirmed the truth of the reports relating to the five women victimized by his misconduct, which we were unaware of previously.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The companies added, As far as we know, his behavior over the past eight years on all five series he has produced for FX Networks and/or FX Productions has been professional.
They continued, However, now is not the time for him to make television shows.
Now is the time for him to honestly address the women who have come forth to speak about their painful experiences, a process which he began today with his public statement.
In that statement, Louis C.K.
did not offer apologies to the women who shared their stories with The Times.
He said, however, I have been remorseful of my actions.
And Ive tried to learn from them.
And run from them.
Now Im aware of the extent of the impact of my actions.
I learned yesterday the extent to which I left these women who admired me feeling badly about themselves and cautious around other men who would never have put them in that position.
Louis C.K.
also said he needed to acknowledge the hurt that Ive brought on people who I work with.
Harassment Claims He added, Ive brought pain to my family, my friends, my children and their mother.
Louis C.K.
is just one of several powerful men who have recently faced rapid consequences after media reports brought attention to allegations of their sexual misconduct or harassment.
Harvey Weinstein, the film producer and media executive; the actor Kevin Spacey; the filmmaker Brett Ratner; and the journalist Mark Halperin are among the prominent men to have experienced precipitous downfalls as accounts about them accumulated.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story While Louis C.K.
was one of the few men to admit to the conduct hed been accused of, many people found his statement unsatisfactory and wondered why his behavior had not been addressed sooner.
The actress Rose McGowan, who has said Mr. Weinstein sexually assaulted her, wrote in a Twitter post on Friday that she had heard stories about Louis C.K.
two years ago even though she isnt connected to the comedy scene.
Industry faux-shock is such a tired lie.
I send my strength and love to all women hurt by him and the code of complicity.
The distributor of Louis C.K.s coming film, I Love You, Daddy, said Friday that it would not go ahead with its Nov. 17 release of the movie.
The comedy, which he wrote and directed, was acquired by the entertainment company the Orchard in a $5 million deal.
Louis C.K.
stars in it as a TV comedy writer opposite John Malkovich as a notorious 68-year-old filmmaker who strikes up an uncomfortable relationship with the writers daughter (Chloe Grace Moretz), who has not yet turned 18.
[ Louis C.K.
is accused by 5 women of sexual misconduct ] Following preview screenings of I Love You, Daddy, several critics remarked on its troubling sexual politics and how certain scenes seemed to be commenting on Louis C.K.s own reputation for misconduct.
Photo HBO said that Louis C.K.
had been dropped from the lineup of Night of Too Many Stars, a comedy benefit on Nov. 18, and that it had pulled other works of his from its on-demand service.
Netflix, which struck a deal with Louis C.K.
to create two new stand-up specials for the streaming service, said on Friday that it will not produce the planned second special.
(The first one, Louis C.K.
2017, was released in April.)
In a statement, Netflix said, The allegations made by several women in The New York Times about Louis C.K.s behavior are disturbing.
Louiss unprofessional and inappropriate behavior with female colleagues has led us to decide not to produce a second stand-up special, as had been planned.
Netflix continues to show earlier stand-up performances by Louis C.K.
Photo TURIN, Italy The art world is a paradoxical place.
Artists, like everyone else, are trying to make sense of what is going on at the moment, yet their creative responses are often presented in contexts that owe their very existence to the forces their art seeks to question and challenge.
Contemporary art is made possible by neoliberal capital, plus the internet, biennials, art fairs, parallel pop-up histories and growing income inequalities, Hito Steyerl, a Berlin-based filmmaker and writer, said in a recent interview in The Guardian.
On Friday, Ms. Steyerl, who created one of the most talked-about contributions to this years Skulptur Projekte Munster, was ranked as the most influential person in the art world in the Power 100 listing compiled each year by ArtReview magazine.
News of Ms. Steyerls elevation (she was seventh last year) visibly lengthened the line of people waiting on Friday to see her video Factory of the Sun at the Fondazione Sandretto Re Rebaudengo here.
This disorientating video, which debuted in 2015 when it was included in the German pavilion at the Venice Biennale, mashes documentary and news clips with video games and dance sequences to evoke the totalitarian nature of digital surveillance culture.
Having recently been on show at the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York and the Julia Stoschek Foundation in Dsseldorf, Factory of the Sun was being screened at the privately owned foundation of the Turin collector Patrizia Sandretto Re Rebaudengo as part of the exhibition Come una Falena alla Fiamma (Like a Moth to a Flame).
Photo Featuring more than 70 works by internationally renowned contemporary artists, the exhibition was mainly divided between the Rebaudengo Foundation and OGR Torino, a new multipurpose cultural center in a former train repair facility.
The event opened on Nov. 3, a day after the preview of the 24th edition of the Artissima art fair in Turin.
And then, among myriad other attractions, there was Carlos Garaicoa from Cuba at the Fondazione Merz, and the Egyptian-Canadian artist Anna Boghiguian at the Castello di Rivoli contemporary art museum just outside the city.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Look at just about any week in the jam-packed contemporary art world calendar, and similar combinations of private and public art foundations with a commercial fair can be found at a city somewhere on the planet.
But Turin, the industrial city where Nietzsche went mad and where most of the artists in Italys Arte Povera movement of the late 1960s and 70s were based, managed to give the churn of yet another week in this world a distinctive twist.
The big mystery in the origin story is why Ms. Streisand passed on what, in hindsight, seems like a golden creative opportunity.
Back then she was feeling musically restless, as she put it in a recent email, and was looking for ways to test herself.
Yet Ms. Streisand had qualms about the Legrand/Bergman idea, then referred to as Life Cycle of a Woman.
I dont think Michel, Marilyn and Alan had fully mapped out their concept yet, except for the basic womb to tomb idea, Ms. Streisand said, adding that in 1973 they recorded five songs intended for the projects, which she released on various albums since.
(Among them were Between Yesterday and Tomorrow, the new recordings poignant title track, and the tender lullaby Mother and Child, in which the singer plays both roles and essentially duets with herself.)
The only two songs I didnt relate to musically or lyrically, at the time, she added, were about birth and death.
They didnt want to change them, and then we all became involved in other projects, so the idea lost momentum.
And there was another, more practical impediment.
I remember one of the things that made the project slightly complicated was that Id decided to record standing in the middle of the studio surrounded by the orchestra, Ms. Streisand said.
Its thrilling being enveloped by the music, as opposed to standing in an isolated vocal booth with the musicians playing on the other side of the glass.
However, it made the record very difficult to mix because if we wanted to raise or lower my vocal level, it raised or lowered all the music around it!
Ms. Dessay admitted in a phone interview from France that Ms. Streisands decision not to record the full oratorio made things easier.
She didnt make it her own, which freed me to be the inspiration for the cycles completion, she said.
The inclusion of birth and death speaks to me, and I really wanted to perform that.
Photo In the 1990s, Ms. Dessay rose to coloratura fame in the opera world for the vividness and commitment of her acting, both in comic roles (she was brilliant as the doll Olympia in Les Contes dHoffmann and the spunky Zerbinetta in Ariadne auf Naxos) and tragic ones (she opened the Metropolitan Operas 2007-08 season in Lucia di Lammermoor).
And since stepping away from staged opera, she has redirected her energies toward theater, touring France in Howard Barkers Und and currently rehearsing the Stefan Zweig drama Legend of a Life.
Portraying Mr. Legrands unnamed woman came naturally to her; she switches to a little-girl tone in Mother and Child without sounding cloying.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Singing the material was another matter, and Ms. Dessay had to retrain herself.
(The new albums liner notes credit the American jazz singer Tierney Sutton as vocal coach.)
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
First of all, when you are miked you dont sing in the same range, so there was a part of my voice, the lower register, Id never used in opera, she said.
Im not going to turn into Patti LuPone or Barbra Streisand, but Im learning to find my other voice maybe my true voice.
Since his 1954 debut album, I Love Paris, Mr. Legrand has worked in various genres while creating an immediately recognizable sound, including his many jazz recordings; his association with the filmmaker Jacques Demy on movie musicals like The Young Girls of Rochefort; his sophisticated soundtracks, most notably Summer of 42 and The Thomas Crown Affair, which spawned the hit The Windmills of Your Mind; and his Oscar-winning score for Ms. Streisands directorial debut, Yentl.
All of those styles can be heard on the lush Between Yesterday and Tomorrow, which feels like the summation of a prodigious career and allows Ms. Dessay to dart with agility and confidence from girlishness to seduction and even, on The More You Have, gentle swing.
Photo Its so Austin Powers, she said of that track, adding that the work also nods to Stravinsky, Prokofiev, Ravel, Debussy, Rodrigo.
Thats whats great about Michel: He has a freedom today that he may not have had 30 or 40 years ago.
If he wants to pay tribute to composers he loves, well, he just does.
Its his way of saying, This is part of my world, this is what has nourished me, and now its part of my music.
The catchy immediacy of Mr. Legrands tunes masks how difficult it can be to sing them.
Theres a feeling of water, somehow, abandoned and never-ending, combined with tricky melodic surprises that require great pitch precision or you miss the key details that make each phrase special, said the singer Melissa Errico, who is among his most capable contemporary interpreters, starring in his only Broadway show, Amour, in 2002, and releasing the album Legrand Affair in 2011.
Between Yesterday and Tomorrow abounds with delicious touches that reward close listening.
Ms. Dessay points out, for instance, that she exhales during the birth song and inhales during the death one, and that the album works as a continuous loop.
I thought that it could begin again endlessly, she said, and that this woman could be born and die endlessly, and that this is the story of humanity.
Its very particular, very personal and very universal at the same time.
Mr. Legrands arrangements for the London Studio Orchestra have a majestic sweep that may remind listeners of classic Hollywood scores as much as the composers own glories.
Ms. Errico recalled he once told her that he meant his arrangements to be both intimate and enormous.
The bassist Pierre Boussaguet has been collaborating with Mr. Legrand since 1993, but he was not quite prepared for the emotional impact of the full orchestration.
I was in tears after a few hours on the first day of recording, he said by email.
I looked around and saw Natalie was crying as well.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Legrand said he wasnt surprised.
The older you get, the better you get, and I write 45 times better than I did back then, he said, chuckling.
I hope its true, in any case.
And when fees are added, it should also exceed the colossal $110.5 million spent by the Japanese collector Yusaku Maezawa for a Jean-Michel Basquiat painting at Sothebys contemporary auction in May.
The allure of Leonardo has already inspired Paramount to buy the film rights to Walter Isaacsons newly published biography of the Italian Renaissance artist, with Leonardo DiCaprio as the lead.
Its an iconic picture and an iconic name, Jean-Luc Baroni, a dealer in old masters, based in London, said of the Leonardo.
By putting it in a contemporary sale, they shine a big light on the painting.
And for clients of contemporary art, the price level might sound less prohibitive, he added.
Impressionist, modern and contemporary art with an estimated value of least $1.6 billion will be offered at Christies, Sothebys and Phillips.
The value of these consignments, which include works by Francis Bacon, Andy Warhol, Fernand Leger and Franz Kline, as well as, incongruously, a Ferrari racecar, represents an increase of more than 46 percent over the equivalent auctions last November.
The $110.5 million bid in May for the 1982 Basquiat was the most dramatic indicator of how the auction market for contemporary art has grown over the last six months.
After two years of contraction, global auction sales of contemporary art grew 14 percent in the first half of 2017, signaling a new period of prosperity, according to a report published by Artprice.com, which monitors auction results.
David Nisinson, a collector and art adviser based in New York, said that a year ago there was uncertainty about how the United States election would affect the stock market, but its just continued to go up.
Theres a lot of unexpected money around, and some of it is very confident, Mr. Nisinson said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Confident buyers give confidence to sellers, particularly when their entries are backed by guaranteed prices.
About half of the 74 lots at Sothebys Tuesday night contemporary auction carry some form of guarantee.
(The figure is a bit lower at Christies.)
With the Dow Jones industrial average at an all-time high, and President Trump planning tax cuts for corporations and the wealthy, the key indicators seem to be positive for the top end of the art market, at least in America.
But there are one or two clouds on the horizon.
President Trumps proposed tax changes include a measure to restrict 1031 like-kind exchanges to real estate transactions.
This provision had allowed high-end art investors to sell works and quickly replace them with pieces of similar value and defer paying federal taxes.
There are so many active and influential players who use it, said Mr. Nisinson, the collector.
Theyre constantly selling and buying without having to pay capital gains.
They will sell less and have less money to buy with.
It could put a damper on things.
But for the moment, those with the wealth to spend millions on art have plenty to choose from.
Here are some of next weeks highlights and one cliffhanger withdrawal.
Leonardos Salvator Mundi It has been hailed by some experts as the art discovery of the century.
Dating from about 1500, this panel painting of Christ as Savior of the World, was identified in a 2011 exhibition at the National Gallery in London as the long-lost original of a Leonardo owned in the 17th century by Queen Henrietta Maria, the wife of King Charles I of England.
But it comes to Christies with plenty of baggage.
In 2005, the Salvator Mundi, then unrecognized and in much overpainted condition, was bought at an estate auction in the United States for less than $10,000.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
After being cleaned and researched, the painting, now cataloged as a work by Leonardo, was sold in 2013 by three dealers to the Swiss businessman Yves Bouvier for $80 million in a private transaction brokered by Sothebys.
Soon afterward, Mr. Bouvier sold the painting for $127.5 million to the Russian billionaire collector Dmitry E. Rybolovlev, whose family trust is the seller at Christies.
The profits made by Mr. Bouvier on this and 37 other artworks bought by Mr. Rybolovlev have become the subject of an ongoing legal dispute between the two men.
The picture is also in abraded condition, giving the image a ghostlike quality.
Luke Syson, curator of the National Gallerys 2011 Leonardo da Vinci: Painter in the Court of Milan exhibition, said in its catalog that the Salvator Mundi had been aggressively over-cleaned.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Given the condition of the Salvator Mundi, and the fact that it was undocumented in the artists lifetime, some scholars have reservations about the attribution to Leonardo.
Carmen C. Bambach, the curator of the Metropolitan Museum of Arts current Michelangelo show, as well as one in 2003 on Leonardo, said in her 2012 review of the National Gallery exhibition that much of the original painting surface may be by Boltraffio, but with passages done by Leonardo himself.
(Giovanni Antonio Boltraffio worked in the studio of Leonardo.)
Ms. Bambach said in an email Friday that she had not revised her view of the painting.
But Christies said in its catalog that there is currently a broad consensus among academics that this is a work by the artist himself.
Photo Christies has a Leonardo, Sothebys has a Ferrari.
Sothebys has, for the first time, turned to a Formula One racecar to diversify the appeal of its contemporary art sale.
On Tuesday, it will be offering a 900 horsepower Ferrari F2001, with the chassis that Michael Schumacher drove to victory in 2001 in both the Monaco and Hungarian Grand Prix.
It is guaranteed to sell for at least $4 million and is touted by Sothebys as the most important modern Formula One racecar in existence.
This is a bold move, said Simon Kidston, founder of the Geneva-based car dealership Kidston.
Its a Ferrari, so by extension its collectible.
But is it one of the greatest Ferraris?
No, he added, pointing out that in 2004 Bonhams sold a Ferrari F1/2000 in which Schumacher won four Grands Prix.
Photo Basketball Drawing by David Hammons The latest round of auctions has been boosted by prestigious estates coming to market.
Christies has four works in its evening sale from the estate of the philanthropist Melva Bucksbaum, a former vice-chairwoman of the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York.
They include Untitled (Basketball Drawing) by David Hammons, from 2003, made by repeatedly bouncing a graphite-encrusted NBA ball against a sheet of paper.
The recent Soul of a Nation: Art in the Age of Black Power exhibition at the Tate Modern in London enhanced Mr. Hammonss reputation as being among the most influential African-American contemporary artists.
Ms. Bucksbaums 10-foot-high example is relatively early and is estimated to sell for between $1 million and $1.5 million.
The current auction high for a Hammons drawing is $1.6 million, according to Artnet.
Photo Picasso Crayon Drawing Previously best known for selling works by younger artists, Phillips is now developing a reputation for auctioning valuable pieces of 20th-century art.
Its Thursday evening sale includes the 1946 Picasso colored crayon drawing, Portrait de Femme Endormie III, from the estate of Anne Marie Aberbach and Julian J. Aberbach.
This serene study of the artists muse, Franoise Gilot, sleeping, is estimated at $1 million to $1.5 million but is likely to go higher.
The design is so considered and the color so rich, said David Norman, an art adviser in New York.
It possesses that transported, sensual quality of the Marie-Thrse, he added, referring to earlier works inspired by Picassos relationship with Marie-Thrse Walter.
Norman Rockwell Paintings The most talked-about exclusion of the week was undoubtedly the seven artworks from the Berkshire Museum in Pittsfield, Mass., due to be sold in Sothebys Monday sale of American art.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Massachusetts Appeals Court on Friday blocked the sale of the group, which included two paintings by Norman Rockwell.
His 1950 oil on canvas, Shuffletons Barbershop, showing silver-haired men making music in a lamplit interior, has been described by a biographer of the artist, Deborah Solomon, as one of his five or six best works and given an estimated price of $20 million to $30 million by Sothebys.
The artist donated this painting to the museum in 1959.
The Rockwells were among 40 artworks being deaccessioned by the financially-strapped Berkshire Museum to fund a redevelopment program.
Though opposed by two groups of plaintiffs, including Rockwells sons, as well as the office of the Massachusetts attorney general, Maura Healey, their sale had been approved on Tuesday by a Berkshire Superior Court judge.
Ms. Healeys request for an injunction halting the sale has now been granted on appeal.
The injunction will expire on Dec. 11, but may be extended.
This abortive sale represents a cautionary moment for auction houses that contract with museums who have not cleared such a sale with local communities and regulators.
Sothebys, in a statement, said: We have never doubted that the board of trustees acted in good faith and was well within their legal rights, and we remain confident that they will prevail in their plans to ensure a bright future for the Berkshire Museum.
Nina Doede, 65, a former financial manager based in New York, experienced the kind of heightened emotional reaction that psychologists have identified as Stendhal syndrome, or hyperkulturemia, an effect caused by aesthetic euphoria.
Standing in front of that painting was a spiritual experience, said Ms. Doede.
It was breathtaking.
It brought tears to my eyes, she added, as she left the sepulchral chamber where the painting is displayed.
Marc Sands, Christies chief marketing officer, said it was the auction houses first-ever use of an outside agency to advertise an artwork.
Sharp-eyed observers noticed that the typeface used for Droga5s online campaign was remarkably similar to the one that promoted the 2006 movie, The Da Vinci Code, based on the best-selling novel by Dan Brown.
Mr. Sands said any similarity was entirely coincidental.
Scholars generally refer to a work by the artist as a Leonardo, but, as Mr. Sands explained, da Vinci has much higher levels of recognition.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The Salvator Mundi is being sold by the family trust of the Russian billionaire collector Dmitry E. Rybolovlev, who bought it in 2013 for $127.5 million and had never exhibited the work in public before now.
The sense that this is rare opportunity to view a Leonardo was heightened in New York, where no museum collection contains a painting by the artist.
The National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., possesses the only example in North America.
The museum paid more than $5 million in a private transaction in 1967 (roughly $36.4 million in todays dollars) to secure Ginevra de Benci, a portrait from the 1470s.
No other painting by the artist has appeared on the open market in the last 100 years.
Its the 16th Leonardo painting, said Dianne Dwyer Modestini, based in New York, who restored the Salvator Mundi.
The painting, showing Christ with his right hand raised in blessing and his left holding a crystal orb, was bought by a dealer, unrecognized, in 2005, in an overpainted and damaged condition.
While Christies claims an unusually uniform scholarly consensus that the painting is by Leonardo himself, some respected experts on Renaissance art who have seen the work failed to succumb to Stendhal Syndrome.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Even making allowances for its extremely poor state of preservation, it is a curiously unimpressive composition and it is hard to believe that Leonardo himself was responsible for anything so dull, wrote Charles Hope, an emeritus professor at the Warburg Institute at the University of London, in his 2012 review of a National Gallery exhibition that included the Salvator Mundi.
Ms. Modestini, the restorer, said in an interview that she hopes the work will ultimately be on public view in a museum.
Its easy to be negative about a damaged picture, and you can argue that a section of drapery might have been painted by a studio assistant, but this should be allowed to live as a Leonardo rather than be someones trophy, she added.
On Wednesday night, auction watchers will find out how many bidders with $100 million to spend have been stirred and their wallets shaken by the Savior of the World.
The projects that never came to be are equally complex and fascinating, represented by detailed preparatory works including photomontages, drawings, collages and models.
An early rejection was the National Gallery in Rome, which Christo prepared to wrap in 1967.
A collage shows an artfully swaddled facade.
The museums director nearly got permission, said Patricia De Peuter, co-curator of the exhibition.
It was not to be, but a year later, in 1968, Christo and Jeanne-Claude were able to realize their first wrapped building, the Kunsthalle in Bern, Switzerland.
A model, a collage and a drawing by Christo show the plain-looking building transformed into something reminiscent of a finely draped Roman goddess.
Photo Although they are only temporary, the projects cost millions of dollars to carry out.
For the Reichstag, Christo and Jeanne-Claude had to raise $15 million, according to a spokesman from Christos office.
These projects have many dimensions, the artist said, like those required for urban planning of a bridge or skyscraper.
Many people work on building them, like in construction.
If you talk to an architect, you will see almost the same ratio of realized and not realized projects.
Christo has lived in New York since 1964, and the exhibition has several models of projects for the city that were rejected, including ones for the Whitney Museum of American Art (at its old home on Madison Avenue, which is now the Met Breuer), a sculpture garden at MoMA, buildings at 20 Exchange Place and at 2 Broadway, and the former New York Times building at One Times Square.
Other unrealized plans on display include treatments of the Reformation Wall in Geneva; the Teatro Nuovo in Spoleto, Italy (rejected because of fire concerns); and the Ponte SantAngelo in Rome.
A proposal to wrap the trees on the Champs-lyses in Paris was turned down because the city authorities decided instead to decorate the trees with electric Christmas lights, according to the artists website.
Some ideas dont die but find new homes, as the exhibition shows.
A collage shows St. Stephens Green, a park in Dublin, which Christo said was the perfect place for wrapped walkways, an idea inspired by Japanese ceremonial gardens, which Christo and Jeanne-Claude first tried to create in 1969.
But we never succeeded, he added.
Finally, he said, we found Kansas City, and the idea came to fruition in Jacob L. Loose Park in 1978.
The exhibition includes drawings and collages of the artists yellow paths, veering like a runway through the grass.
With that example in mind, could any of the rejected projects be revived?
I would never go back to the skyscrapers in New York, Christo said.
At the moment, I do not want to do buildings.
There are some sites that I could return to.
But I cannot tell you which ones now.
Baldwins essay begins with a withering description of the television ads he is forced to endure while watching the news ads that aim to sanitize, brighten, straighten, tame and tweak the skin, hair, teeth and bodies of viewers into an impossible standard of perfection that positions the enemy to be, well, nature itself.
The portraits in Nothing Personal present a stark yet authentic counterpoint to the American image of eternal youth and anodyne good cheer.
The books most resonant chords hover at a frequency detected in the balance of Avedons austere minimalism and Baldwins mournful jeremiad.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Only one portrait in Nothing Personal bears a date: Maj. Claude Eatherly, Pilot at Hiroshima, August 6, 1945.
It refers not to when the photograph was made but to when Major Eatherly flew weather reconnaissance over Hiroshima and then gave the O.K.
to drop the first atomic bomb, code-named Little Boy.
Avedon first contacted Eatherly to photograph him in early 1963.
For a long, long time I have felt a connection with you, as have my wife and many of my friends, Avedon wrote to him in Galveston, Tex., because what happened to you is almost like a metaphor of what many Americans feel has happened to them.
Avedon flew to Galveston to make his tightly cropped portrait of Eatherly, brow furrowed and hand cupped over his eye as if to scrutinize the distant horizon.
Photo In a series of museum talks, Colin Westerbeck, the eminent photography historian, argued that Major Eatherly is the central portrait in Nothing Personal, perhaps even in Avedons entire career.
He pointed out the absence of shadow and the blown-out background in Avedons portraiture that left every wrinkle, stubble, wen and nervous tick on his subjects faces strikingly visible.
When that bank of strobes went off in Avedons studio pfoom!
subjects must have felt as if theyd been caught in an atomic bomb blast, Mr. Westerbeck said.
That bomb blast became the signature style with which Avedon went on to create many series of photographs, including The Family, 69 portraits of the most powerful and influential Americans in 1976, published in Rolling Stone for the countrys bicentennial.
His 1985 book, In the American West, consists of portraits of anonymous workers, drifters, cowboys and random citizens made throughout the Western United States over five years, a contrast to the pantheon of accomplishment and celebrity that characterized most of Avedons portraiture.
In conceiving Nothing Personal, Avedon might have had in mind a dialogue with The Americans, by Robert Frank, published five years earlier an artists book that struck a sober note about the story America told itself versus the realities of daily life for its citizens.
At the time, The Americans was little known outside of New York art circles, but the book had a profound influence on photographers including Avedon and on the direction of photography itself.
While Mr. Frank had traveled across the country to capture happened-upon moments in ordinary life, Avedons idiom was the portrait, with which he was equally intent on telling a deeper truth about America.
Implicit in Avedons version was the persistent threat to our existence, something the Cuban missile crisis had brought that much closer two years before Nothing Personal was published.
At the time, Avedon considered the portraits in the book to be some of my very best work.
Photo Yet, to his surprise and chagrin, the public reaction was swift and hostile.
Writing in The New York Review of Books, Robert Brustein lashed out at the books extravagant snow-white covers with sterling silver titles before excoriating the effort in his critique.
(It predated by six years Tom Wolfes incendiary 1970 essay, Radical Chic: That Party at Lennys, in New York magazine a savage takedown of New Yorks intellectual circle of limousine liberals as conspicuous hypocrites.)
Nothing Personal pretends to be a ruthless indictment of contemporary America, Brustein wrote, but the people likely to buy this extravagant volume are the subscribers to fashion magazines, while the moralistic authors of the work are themselves pretty fashionable, affluent, and chic.
Truman Capote came to Avedons defense in a letter to the editors published the following month: Would he rather it was printed on paper-toweling?
Capote asked.
Brustein accuses Avedon of distorting reality.
But can one say what is reality in art?
An artist, to repeat Picasso, paints not what he sees, but what he thinks about what he sees.
This applies to photography provided the photographer is an artist, and Avedon is.
The year before Nothing Personal was published, Avedon had traveled to the South to photograph leaders of the civil rights movement, among them Martin Luther King Jr., as well as those who staunchly opposed it, such as Gov.
George Wallace, of Alabama.
When he returned to New York, he opened his studio to photographers from the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (S.N.C.C.)
to train them to shoot rallies and sit-ins in a photojournalistic style that the mainstream press would publish.
He convinced Marty Forscher, the owner of Professional Camera Repair Service, to donate 75 cameras and a supply of film to the S.N.C.C.
for three years.
In 1965, Visual Arts Gallery, where Avedon was a board member, mounted a show of S.N.C.C.
photographers work.
Photo At DeWitt Clinton High School in the Bronx, Avedon, who was Jewish, and Baldwin, who was African-American, were editors of The Magpie, the schools literary magazine.
They conceived a project with text and photographs called Harlem Doorways that never fully got off the ground.
In later years, Avedon recounted the time as students when Baldwin came to visit him at home on East 86th Street, and the doorman made him use the service elevator.
Avedons mother was furious and summoned the doorman upstairs to apologize to young Baldwin for the insult.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Can Avedons illustrious image coexist with evidence of his social conscience?
It is found throughout his work and in the causes he championed, both publicly and privately.
In 1955, he photographed Marian Anderson, who was performing in Verdis Un Ballo in Maschera, the first African-American soloist to sing on the stage of the Metropolitan Opera.
In the portrait, her mouth is rounded into an oval so expressive that you can almost hear her voice an unusual feat of visual onomatopoeia.
The portrait ran in Harpers Bazaar and Avedon considered its publication his own small stand against racial discrimination.
In 1959, when Avedon first photographed China Machado, a Chinese-born, Portuguese-American fashion model encouraged by Diana Vreeland, the fashion editor of Bazaar the magazines publisher said: Listen, we cant publish these pictures.
The girl is not white.
Avedon was so angry that he threatened to leave Bazaar.
The pictures were published.
But questions of what came first arise here too, centered on a marble sculpture called the Young Archer.
For many years, this figure of a nude youth had stood, barely noticed, in the Cultural Services of the French Embassy on Fifth Avenue, across the street from the Met.
Then in 1996, an art historian identified it as a Michelangelo.
The call was hotly debated, but the attribution has stood.
And the circa 1496-97 date now attached to the work makes it altogether possible that Michelangelo carved the figure at age 21, making him the prodigy he claimed to be.
Photo With this sculpture, he had found what would be his favorite subject, and the one that would make his name: the heroic male body.
Approximately a decade after the Young Archer came the colossal David, and with that Michelangelo was a star, a Medici darling, and on his way to becoming the new kind of public celebrity he aimed to be: not just a highly skilled maker of things, but a multitasking, miracle-working aristocrat of creativity called a genius.
If Michelangelo didnt coin the term, he (with a reluctant nod to Leonardo da Vinci) coined the type.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Prestigious commissions, in painting, sculpture and architecture, piled up.
In 1504, he was asked to do a fresco for the Council Chamber of the Palazzo della Signoria, the seat of the Florentine government.
Leonardo, more than 30 years his senior, and no friend, was assigned the opposite wall.
The idea was that they both would paint a historic battle, Michelangelos being one in which a troop of 14th-century Florentine soldiers interrupted a swim in the Arno to take an enemy by surprise.
Photo He turned the scene into a polyphonic chorale of pumped bodies: abs, pecs, lats, glutes, buns.
We know the image well, though the fresco thanks to the first of what would be endless Medici interventions never got beyond the full-scale cartoon stage.
Ink and chalk sketches on paper of the individual figures exist.
So does a drawing of the whole composition, now so smudged it looks like a puff of smoke.
The most vivid piece of evidence is a large 1540 oil painting here by Bastiano da Sangallo, who saw the finished cartoon before it was whitewashed out.
Photo All of this material, now scattered among museums the Louvre, the Uffizi, the Albertina in Vienna has been brought together at the Met.
This is how the exhibition, organized by Carmen C. Bambach, a curator in the museums department of drawings and prints, works.
It ingeniously reconstructs Michelangelo projects by assembling related designs in dense, connect-the-dots clusters.
This is, of course, the only way to present architecturally scaled art, or long-vanished things.
The show is as close as we can now get to seeing the massive sculptural tomb of Pope Julius II in its many aborted iterations; it was this urgent commission (years before Juliuss death) that pulled Michelangelo off the battle fresco.
And a selection of plans scribbled on paper scraps, spread across pasted-together sheets for the facade of the Medici parish church of San Lorenzo adds up to a beguiling archive of thinking-in-progress.
Rarely has architectural design felt more expressively personal, moody, painterly, calligraphic.
Part of Ms. Bambachs goal, and one that she pursues in her labor-of-love catalog, is to revisit the original Renaissance concept of design disegno as a theoretical category, an aesthetic and ethical end in itself.
A basic idea was that just as the physical world represented, in every shade and contour, divine labor so, on a human level, did (or could) art.
Michelangelo benefited mightily from this elevation of the artist from workshop drone to deity (and brand).
In his later megastar years, people actually referred to him as God.
The Sistine Chapel ceiling is a work of disegno in excelsis: the story of the Creation told through superhuman craft.
Video The exhibitions long central gallery is given over to the ceiling, a project so complex that Michelangelo gave up organizing a production team and did most of the job himself.
You can see him plugging away at it, on scaffolding just under the ceiling, in a self-caricature drawn in the margin of a handwritten sonnet.
Ive already grown a goiter at this drudgery, he grouses.
My brush, above me all the time, drips paint, turning my face into a perfect drop cloth.
In the Sistine paintings the male body and nearly all the bodies are male are muscle on top of muscle, Arnold Schwarzenegger circa 1975.
The Classical ideal balance, just-rightness has been pumped out of existence.
Mannerist too-muchness the 21st century knows a lot about this rules.
Neither the ceiling, nor the later, nightmarish Last Judgment, is art youre invited to love.
It aims to overpower you, make you feel small, crushed by cosmic history.
Some viewers find the experience a thrill.
Ive always found it off-putting.
Its in drawings that I start to feel close to this art and its maker.
One chalk-sketched titan has an oddly lumpy, imperfect, maybe-not-young body; and hes sleeping.
Clearly, hes a studio assistant whos been roped into posing at the end of a day.
And while the mood of the Last Judgment fresco is full-orchestra cataclysmic, ink sketches for it can be light, almost tender.
In one, the resurrected dead float in space, speck-like and weightless, like birds lifting off from a foggy lake.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story And then there are drawings generated by tenderness itself.
This is true of a gallery devoted to fanciful divine heads, including one of a doleful Cleopatra, that the middle-aged artist made as gifts for young male aristocrats Gherardo Perini, Andrea Quaratesi, Tommaso de Cavalieri on whom he had developed crushes.
His black chalk portrait of Quaratesi, who was 37 years his junior, as a somber dreamboat with plush lips and faraway eyes is here and its an eye-stopper.
So are several discreetly erotic mythological drawings he gave as Valentines to Cavalieri who, whatever the sexual nature of their bond, became a lifelong friend.
He was at the artists bedside when he died at 88 in Rome in 1564.
PARIS At the Cartier Foundation for Contemporary Art in the Montparnasse district, the party was swinging.
A group of chic Parisians was bobbing absent-mindedly to San Francisco, by the Gallic rock legend Johnny Hallyday, which was blasting through the foyer.
Others were picking through a jumble of costumes and props in an improvised photo studio.
One woman had squeezed into a banana-yellow African batik dress; her partner had opted for retro sunglasses and an African feather wand.
The couple regarded themselves with approval in a mirror, and struck a pose for a waiting photographer.
Parisian art galleries arent renowned for their decadent party spirit, at least not on weekday afternoons.
But the Cartier Foundation was doing its utmost to get into the groove.
A few days earlier, it had opened Mali Twist, a show dedicated to the renowned Malian photographer Malick Sidib, and now a highlight of this years Paris Photo week.
Some 250 black-and-white photographs crowd every inch of wall.
In one, a pair of teenage boys in wildly patterned bell bottoms pose moodily with a guitar.
Nearby, a glacially sophisticated young woman in shades and a tailored suit looks as if she were about to set off down a catwalk.
Photo Billed as the largest Sidib retrospective ever staged, and the first in continental Europe since the photographers death last year, Mali Twist pays tribute to a man who produced electrifyingly modern images of night life in the countrys capital, Bamako, in the 1960s and 70s.
On view through Feb. 25, it also retells one of the most remarkable stories in contemporary art.
After growing up in rural Mali, the son of a stock breeder, Sidib worked full time as a photographer for just a few decades, before disappearing into obscurity.
After being discovered by Western curators in the 90s, he ended up being awarded the Golden Lion for lifetime achievement at the Venice Biennale in 2007, the first photographer and the first artist from Africa ever to win that honor.
The shows curator, Andr Magnin, recalled how he first encountered Sidib, on a trip to Bamako in 1992.
He had arrived on a mission to track down a mysterious photographer whose work hed seen in New York.
That man was Seydou Keta, whose pensive studio portraits of Malians in the 1950s later won worldwide acclaim.
Mr. Magnin contacted him, and while in Bamako, he also met a man who spent his time mending cameras and taking passport photos in a run-down joint called Studio Malick.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In one night, in a few minutes, I met Keta and Sidib, two masters, Mr. Magnin said, adding, It was like a dream.
Photo The images that Mr. Magnin and his colleague Franoise Huguier turned up astonished the art world, and changed perceptions of African visual culture for good.
Accustomed to depictions of remote tribes or shots of famine and conflict, Western viewers could scarcely believe their eyes: The idea that West African baby boomers spent the 1960s doing the twist or grooving to the Rolling Stones, like their contemporaries in Minneapolis and Marseille, was more than many could comprehend.
Wild Nights on Bamakos Dance Floors Manthia Diawara, a filmmaker who now teaches at New York University, grew up a few streets away from Studio Malick and was part of a teenage group that called itself Les Rockers.
In a telephone interview from Senegal, he recalled how sitting for Sidib became a rite of passage: You went to your tailor with your James Brown album, and you said to him, I want my jacket to look exactly like this, and youd do your hair like him, everything else.
Then Malick would take your picture and make you immortal.
The injunction will expire on Dec. 11, but the court added that the attorney generals office may move to extend it.
Sothebys had described the Berkshire Museum works as a superb collection that was among the highlights of its American Art sale on Monday.
In addition to Shuffletons Barbershop, which Sothebys said Rockwell created for the cover of The Saturday Evening Post in 1950, the auction was to include Rockwells Blacksmiths Boy Heel and Toe (Shaftsbury Blacksmith Shop), which was estimated to have a price of $7 million to $10 million.
Among other museum works to be offered on Monday were The White Dress by Thomas Wilmer Dewing, Hunter in Winter Wood by George Henry Durrie and Connecticut River Valley, Claremont, New Hampshire by Albert Bierstadt.
Last summer, the financially strapped museum announced the planned sale of 40 works, including Impressionist and modern art, contemporary art, 19th-century European paintings, American art and Chinese art.
The museum said the proceeds were needed to build its endowment, renovate its building and expand programming to create a heightened emphasis on science and history.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Officials from the museum and from Sothebys said they were disappointed by the decision.
Elizabeth McGraw, the president of the museums board of trustees called the court decision a setback for the institution and its neighbors.
The auction that held the promise of addressing our museums serious financial difficulties will have to proceed without our works, and our plans for the future will be delayed, she said in a written statement.
Until that process resolves, we will continue to do what we do every day: bring our passion for art, science and discovery to our community.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The auction house confirmed that Mondays auction would go forward with the rest of more than 70 works that have been slated for sale.
We have never doubted that the board of trustees acted in good faith and was well within their legal rights, Sothebys said in a statement, and we remain confident that they will prevail in their plans to ensure a bright future for the Berkshire Museum in support of the community of Pittsfield and western Massachusetts.
Michael B. Keating, a lawyer for the Rockwell family and others seeking to stop the sale, said his clients fully supported the decision that blocked the auction of the museum items and the irreparable harm that would occur if these paintings were to be sold.
Museum organizations have condemned the museums deaccessioning plan, saying it violated guidelines against the sale of art to subsidize operating and other expenses instead of using such proceeds to enhance or maintain a collection.
Rockwells sons and a group of museum members sued separately to stop the sale.
But Judge John A. Agostini of Berkshire Superior Court found that they lacked legal standing.
Judge Agostini also denied a request by the attorney general to block the sale.
The states lawyers told the appeals court on Friday that the museum was looking to sell nearly all of its valuable art.
Doing so would violate a number of trusts, they said, including what they described as a promise to Rockwell that his works would remain in the permanent collection and another pledge that some of the works slated for auction would never leave Pittsfield.
This sale is unprecedented in terms of the number, value and prominence of the works being proposed, the centrality of these works to the museums collection, and the process the museum employed to select and dispose of the deaccessioned items, the attorney generals office said in its filing on Friday.
The lower court had described the attorney generals office as a reluctant warrior, whose objections had not included specific details on how it would review the planned sale.
It noted that a delay would have considerable financial consequences for the museum.
It did not find that the museum had violated any of the charitable trusts through which it had come into possession of the art.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The attorney generals office countered in its filing on Friday that while the museum could sell the works in the future, any items disposed of at auction would be very difficult to get back.
It said the museum had not abided by its most pressing mission to preserve its charitable purpose and that whatever the financial hurdles, its relationship to other museums and with donors would be damaged by the sale.
This centenary year of the most horrific episode along the Western Front has seen the release of several new books, including Nick Lloyds Passchendaele: A New History, and brought a host of British, Australian, New Zealand and Canadian delegations to remembrance ceremonies on these scarred fields.
It has also occasioned a suite of exhibitions in this region, under the umbrella title 1917: Total War in Flanders, that explore how the Great War intensified 100 years ago into an unprecedented catastrophe.
These shows, in museums and at battle sites, examine a wide range of topics: the use of photography in the war effort, the provision of medical care, the participation of colonial forces and the ecological impact of the fighting.
All of them complement the regions already substantial collection of museums and heritage sites, including large Commonwealth, German and Belgian cemeteries and monuments at almost every intersection.
Free of the nationalism that can divert military anniversaries consider Blood Swept Land and Seas of Red, the grossly jingoistic installation of ceramic poppies that festered around the Tower of London in 2014 these Belgian exhibitions are models of sincerity and sobriety.
I traveled here to see them in part to consider whether museums can make sense of war, and in part because, like most Americans, I felt I knew too little about World War I. Passchendaele may be a byword for suffering in Britain, Canada, Australia and New Zealand, but in America it is hardly known, and the larger war, which killed more Americans than Korea and Vietnam combined, has long been overshadowed by subsequent conflicts.
Washington still has no World War I memorial; if it ever gets one, it will not be on the National Mall.
New exhibitions and displays at several Smithsonian museums have elicited almost no media coverage.
Even the commission set up by Congress in 2013 to commemorate this years centenary calls World War I Americas most forgotten war.
But there are Flemish answers for some urgent American questions not least, how to memorialize the dead of a conflict with no nobility.
The In Flanders Fields Museum, the regions most important, is housed in the rebuilt Cloth Hall that sits on Ypress pleasant town square.
(Ypres is the French name for this city of 35,000; these days it goes by the Dutch name Ieper, though Commonwealth soldiers, struggling with the French monosyllable, pronounced it Wipers.)
Photo The museums permanent exhibition, which opened in 2012, tells a harrowing story of the war in Flanders from 1914 onward, and mixes archival materials with some uncommonly sensitive multimedia features.
Shovels and water pumps evoke the trenches, and gas masks recall that earlier battles around Ypres, in 1915, saw the first use of chemical weapons in warfare.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In 1916, buoyed by the French prime minister Georges Clemenceaus call for a total war, in which industry and civil society joined with the military for an all-out onslaught, British generals ordered troops to make excruciating, pointless sallies that gained a few meters of territory at the expense of thousands of lives.
A battle meant to last 72 hours slogged on for five months.
Yet generals and grand strategy are largely absent in this museum; instead, at intervals, screens show actors reading the diaries of ordinary troops, Allied and German alike, who see the carnage up close.
One panoramic screen features Harvey Cushing, the American doctor in Mr. Englunds The Beauty and the Sorrow, who with two nurses recounts the daily casualties, and how their early delusions of the grandeur of war gave way to the ire and fatalism that would become the hallmarks of European modernism.
Photo Five hundred years ago, in his Book of the Courtier, the Italian nobleman Baldassare Castiglione set out rules for behavior that had a profound influence on a newly emerging kind of humanistic artist.
Skill was necessary, yes, but a Renaissance man the gendered designation went without saying should aspire to paint with sprezzatura, an easy perfection sometimes rendered in English as nonchalance.
Sprezzatura, for Castiglione, was a special kind of mastery, which conceals all artistry and makes whatever one says or does seem uncontrived and effortless.
It wasnt enough, for a Renaissance man, to create something beautiful.
The real test was to make it look as if you hadnt tried.
This has been an ambition of artists for centuries, but not for the Glasgow-based Irish sculptor and painter Cathy Wilkes influential among her peers but too little known here whose mastery takes precisely the opposite tack.
Her art is an art of anti-sprezzatura: manifest effort and extreme care, all to create things that appear unheeded or disposable.
At MoMA PS1 in Queens, Ms. Wilkes is the subject of a delicate, downcast exhibition that unites uncanny cloth sculptures and scumbled paintings with large doses of junk.
Do not go expecting fireworks; her tools can be as unprepossessing as a tea-ringed saucer, a discolored hatbox, an unfixed sink or a case of vegetable peelers.
Yet industriously reworked and gathered into disarming displays and tableaus, these nothing-special sources limn the biggest themes of love, fear, loss, mourning, childhood and even divine grace.
Domestic but not tender, this show is an emotional roundhouse in an art world that can sometimes seem as if it forgot how to feel.
Photo Ms. Wilkes was born in 1966 in Belfast.
She moved when young to Scotland, where she attended the Glasgow School of Art: the stalwart institution that has produced the bulk of Britains most important contemporary artists, from Simon Starling and Lucy Skaer to Martin Boyce and Karla Black.
She soon began integrating objects from her home and studio, such as drapes, clothing and jars of jam or porridge, into spatial environments in pristine galleries.
Almost always, the fabrics were worn, stained or frayed; the jars would still be coated with food residue.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Those and other similarly blemished found objects a half-used vial of lip gloss, a remote control for a forgotten appliance are displayed with the care once afforded saintly relics, and positioned among murky, often gloomy abstract paintings and much more moving figurative sculptures, without regard to chronology.
A papier-mch statue of an armless, knock-kneed youth, wearing a linen apron, stands in front of dried heather from rural Scotland that lies strewed on the floor, while weathered plates and mugs are stacked against the wall.
A pair of half-dressed mannequins, first seen in her 2005 Glasgow exhibition Non Verbal, and modified since, stands behind a rusted metal box a sort of Judd mockery in which youll find a frayed car seat cushion, a crumpled orange shirt and a used makeup canister.
Photo Two photographs by Carolee Schneemann valued at $105,000 were stolen from MoMA PS1 and then returned in the mail.
The photographs were part of the current exhibit Carolee Schneemann: Kinetic Painting.
The museum became aware that the photographs were stolen on Oct. 30.
But four days later, the photographs were mailed back to the museum in a FedEx package, with no substantial damage or explanation, according to the New York Police Department.
On Sunday, the department released footage that it said showed a woman mailing a box containing the photographs from a shipping store in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, and asked for the publics assistance in identifying the suspect.
On Monday, a representative for the Police Department said that no arrest had been made, and that the motive for the burglary was unclear.
The exhibit is Ms. Schneemanns first American retrospective and covers six decades of her art, including her early painting, experimental video work, photography and multimedia installations.
A representative for the museum declined to comment.
Photo Three buses stand on their heads in front of the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin in an installation that recreates a makeshift barricade erected in Aleppo, Syria, in 2015 to protect civilians against snipers during the height of the countrys civil war.
The installation, Monument, by the Syrian-German artist Manaf Halbouni, is based on a picture of the barrier taken by the photographer Karam Al-Masri that was widely shared on the internet at the time.
The site of major political events throughout German history, the gate has a special symbolic resonance for Germans.
It was where the official ceremony to mark the reunification of Germany was held in 1990.
Mr. Halbouni, who was born in Damascus in 1984, told Reuters that he chose to recreate that barricade in that location because the Brandenburg Gate is a symbol of destruction and of the end of war.
It was also a symbol of division, but then came to represent unity, he continued.
Monument, which was presented in Dresden earlier this year, was met with protests from far-right groups there.
In February, demonstrators shouted down the citys mayor, Dirk Hilbert, at a ceremony to unveil the work, which had been installed in front of the Frauenkirche, a large church was destroyed in the Allied bombing of the city in 1945 and rebuilt after German reunification.
According to a report by The Guardian, a news statement from the far-right party Alternative for Germany called Mr. Halbounis work an abuse of artistic freedom and attacked the artist as a rootless wanderer.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Halbouni told the newspaper, I am rootless, in the sense that the war has taken my childhood away from me, by killing or scattering the friends of my youth all over the globe.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Monument is a part of the Berliner Herbstsalon festival, which features work by about 100 artists around the German capital.
The organizers call the festival a rebellion against attributions, generalizations and simplifications.
On his website, Mr. Halbouni wrote that Monument is intended to create a link between the wartime experiences of the Middle East and Europe.
Logos are what companies use to help customers identify the brand, and choices like design, color and font are critical, Mr. James said.
Having these logos where you cant correctly recall details means something.
In an age of digital saturation, perhaps many of these carefully constructed logos are not as memorable as we think.
A study conducted in 2014 by psychologists at the University of California, Los Angeles similarly asked 85 participants if they could draw the familiar Apple logo from memory.
More than half the subjects even identified themselves as strictly Apple users.
Yet only one could draw the icon perfectly, as scored by a 14-point rubric.
Should Apple be worried?
Not necessarily.
Dr. Alan Castel, a psychology professor who was one of the authors of the study, said that the inability to accurately recall such daily ephemera as a brand logo really might be a beneficial quirk of our memory system.
We dont burden our memory with things we dont need to know, Dr. Castel said.
He referred to a famous study in 1979 by the psychologists Raymond Nickerson and Marilyn Jager Adams, in which participants were asked to draw the face of a penny.
Most struggled.
Its rare that you really need to recall something from memory, Dr. Castel said.
You simply recognize it, you see it on an item or a computer.
You like it, you buy it.
Still, in recent years, brands like Uber, YouTube, and Dropbox have redesigned their logos, trying to make them more simple, more intuitive or more easily recognizable.
In 2014, Airbnb announced its new logo, which it calls the Blo, in a video that noted that the design was easy for customers to draw.
Photo Paul Stafford, co-founder of DesignStudio, the agency that led the rebranding effort, said that Airbnb envisioned people renting out their homes and putting their own spin on the Blo on everything from magazines to bathrobes and shampoo bottles, like a hotel.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story We had to create something that was so simple that everybody could draw it and interpret it themselves, Mr. Stafford said.
They also wanted people to be sharing it.
Right down to the people tattooing the mark on their arms.
Mr. Stafford, however, said that he did not think that being able to draw a logo necessarily indicates how well it resonates.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
People often see logos so much that they feel like they know it.
But they rarely critique it or study it enough to reproduce fine details a phenomenon that psychologists like Dr. Castel call inattentional amnesia.
When something is seen frequently, the information ends up being more easily ignored or forgotten.
For instance, Dr. Castel said he would be curious how accurately people could recall the fine details of a stop sign.
We know its red, but the more subtle features the exact shape of it, whether theres a white border around it these are things we often miss, even though weve seen it millions of times, he said.
Perhaps the most surprising result of the Signs.com study was the company that fared best: Ikea.
The Swedish furniture maker with the distinctive blue-and-yellow logo plastered across its giant retail stores was redrawn near-perfectly by 30 percent of the participants.
Asa Nordin, who is a senior coordinator of Ikea trademarks at Inter Ikea Systems, said the unique shape, colors, and longevity of the logo it has been around since 1983 most likely contributed to its memorability.
The logo is merely the symbol for what the Ikea brand promises and delivers, Ms. Nordin said in an email.
The logo shall mirror that promise as near as possible, as well as stand out from its surroundings.
To be consistent and unique is clearly a strength of a logo.
The hardest logo to draw was Starbucks, which was redesigned in 2011.
It is also arguably the most complex.
Simplicity is key, Mr. James said.
Thats not necessarily a new concept.
But this definitely corroborates that idea.
But is any logo overwhelmingly memorable?
Mr. James is now curious.
Initially, he resisted putting an overly straightforward and ubiquitous symbol in his study, like those of McDonalds or Nike.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story We thought it was too simple, Mr. James said.
But, I wonder.
VIENNA Its been nearly a century since the Austrian painter Egon Schiele died, but his art charged with erotic energy and usually showing more than a little skin still ruffles feathers.
A series of advertisements showing Schieles graphically contorted bodies (with explicitly rendered private parts) didnt make it past the critical eyes of those selling advertising space in Britain and Germany nor the anti-nudity restrictions on Facebook.
The artworks had to be covered up.
Both Schiele and his mentor, the painter Gustav Klimt, died in 1918, the same year World War I and the Austro-Hungarian empire ended.
In 2018, museums in Vienna will mount a yearlong series of exhibitions and events to mark the centennial: Stairway to Klimt begins at Viennas Kunsthistorisches Museum on Feb. 13; Egon Schiele, Expression and Lyricism opens at the Leopold Museum on Feb. 23.
Viennas Tourist Board has also been working on a campaign celebrating these and other big-draw exhibitions, and Viennese modernism in general.
But the campaign ran into an unusual glitch the offices originally planned posters, featuring large Schiele nudes, turned out to be too racy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story According to a Vienna Tourist Board spokeswoman, Helena Hartlauer, Transport for London rejected the original images, citing trepidation about depicting genitals in public space.
Hes so beautifully thought out, said Robbys owner, Bill Malone, 70, of Studio City, Calif.
Forbidden Planet would not have worked had Robby been a boiler-pot robot from the 1940s.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get expert TV and movie recommendations from the Watching newsletter The best of what to watch and where to watch it, delivered to your inbox twice a week.
Robby was built mainly of Royalite, an ABS plastic often used for luggage, by a team of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer designers and technicians for approximately $100,000.
His electronics could be activated via an offstage control panel connected by a cable, or by an operator inside the costume who conducted the actual movement.
As a kid, Mr. Malone said, I totally believed he was real.
Bonhams is selling Robby along with the control panel, a futuristic land vehicle he piloted on planet Altair IV, and his original M.G.M.
packing crates.
The studio sold the lot in 1970 to Jim Brucker, who displayed Robby at the now-defunct Movie World/Cars of Stars venue in Orange County, Calif. Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Malone bought the works from Mr. Brucker for pennies on the dollar in 1979; since then the robot has resided in Mr. Malones home.
Every morning Id have coffee with Robby, he said.
So why unload him now?
Im of an age where Im still healthy and doing good, Mr. Malone said, but I think its time to think about his future.
Were sending Robby to college.
Photo There are also practical considerations.
Mr. Malone recalled that someone once telephoned to ask, Is it O.K.
if I bring a couple of people over?
And he drove up in a Greyhound bus with a bunch of Japanese people, as if I were part of the Universal tour, he continued.
I think people need to see him in a museum setting.
It was tough working with a robot who didnt talk, said Earl Holliman, 89, the last surviving major player in Forbidden Planet.
Whenever I talked to Robby, the lines would be delivered by the script supervisor, who was sitting next to the cameraman.
It was kind of awkward.
Still, as the cook of United Planets Cruiser C-57D, Mr. Holliman forged a bond with Robby when the robot distilled 60 gallons of bourbon for him.
Hes been a friend for 62 years, Mr. Holliman said, and I hope that whoever gets him keeps him well lubricated.
Martine Ali Age 31 Hometown Chicago Now Lives In a minimal one-bedroom apartment in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, where the lights are seldom on but a record always is.
Claim to Fame Ms. Ali has a namesake line of unisex jewelry that evokes early 2000s hip-hop with its street-wear-inspired use of hardware staples like chains, dog tags and safety pins.
The line is carried by influential stores including Opening Ceremony and Kith, and the rapper Kendrick Lamar is a fan and has worn her bracelet, necklace and wallet chain on tour this year, as well as in several videos, including Humble and Element.
That was definitely the moment I saw a pretty literal spike in business and industry love, Ms. Ali said.
Kendrick made my designs recognizable.
And just this month Rihanna wore Ms. Alis bracelets and earring in her Lemon video with N.E.R.D, which the designer long considered a dream.
Big Break In 2010, while interning at DKNY, Ms. Ali would wear her homemade pieces around the office.
One day, her jewelry got noticed by Jane Chung, then the designer, who commissioned her to create pieces for the coming collection.
The day before the show, Donna Karan herself saw the pieces and asked if Ms. Ali could adapt them as handbag adornments.
After that it changed from a hobby to a skill and an asset, Ms. Ali said.
Photo Latest Project Ms. Ali created a jewelry collection for the Australian-American designer Matthew Adams Dolans spring 2018 fashion show that will be available at Opening Ceremony for the holidays under her name.
The collection, featuring delicate pieces rendered in gold and pearl, is a departure from her usual aesthetic (like if I were a painter going from oil to watercolor, she said) and feels decidedly more feminine.
Next Project She is collaborating with Assembly New York, a Lower East Side boutique, on a range of leather-and-silver accessories.
They do these really cool vinyl bags and other pieces that were going to mess with, she said.
I dont plan a lot, you know?
Shes the Boss In a retail world increasingly dominated by mega-brands and luxury conglomerates, Ms. Ali cherishes her freedom as a smaller, self-run brand with uninhibited creative control.
She believes that selling to customers directly from her website, and communicating with them through Instagram, sets her apart.
I cant tell you how valuable that is these days to be seen as a person and not Amazon, she said.
Photo Earl Lucas, 47, is the chief exterior designer at the Lincoln Motor Company, in Dearborn, Mich. Q.
What is your day-to-day like?
Its different every day.
I interface with multiple disciplines, whether it be packaging, engineering, marketing or public relations.
Some days I am at my computer designing digitally.
Then I might be in our studio seeing that image converted to a clay model, and later as a fiberglass version of it.
Another day I go to our wind tunnel, where we test aerodynamics to make sure we have the right drag count to get the best fuel economy for our product.
A.
Did you always want to be an automobile designer?
I always knew I wanted to do something with design.
I studied industrial design focusing on jewelry rings, pendants and earrings for two years at the College of Creative Studies in Detroit.
The college also happened to have an outstanding automobile design curriculum.
After taking one class in that program, I was hooked.
It turns out the principles of designing a ring are the same as designing a car.
What or who were your early design influences?
I would have to start with my mother, Vessie Lucas, who is an interior decorator.
She taught me to think abstractly of what could be at an early age.
I read a lot of comics, like The Mighty Thor and Spiderman.
I also watched cartoons such as Speed Racer, Battle of the Planets and Star Blazers.
In terms of cars, I loved my grandfathers 1984 Continental Mark VII, with two tones of blue paint and an impeccable white interior.
After he died, I got to drive it on Sundays to church.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story What considerations influence your design concepts?
I try to reflect the personality of the brand.
In the case of Lincoln, our cars embody effortless luxury.
We think of our car as a friend.
We convey that through form, shape, color and texture.
The most influential design element may be the front grille.
It has to stand out but be in proportion with everything else.
The centerpiece is our logo called the Lincoln Star which was developed in the 1950s.
I have managed to tweak it a little.
What do you envision for auto design in the future?
Autonomous cars driverless automobiles are the future and we are already developing technologies to accommodate for this shift, which we predict could be in effect by 2030.
As highways and streets will be modified, cars will also have different shapes and silhouettes; they may look more like living rooms.
Well need to anticipate caravans, where cars will link up to each other to save energy.
Photo The Salon Art + Design, opening on Friday, is arguably more inclusive than other fairs at the Park Avenue Armory.
Art, design and decorative arts can be found here, and the fair organizers stress that everything from high-ticket items to affordable objects for new collectors are on view, with galleries trying to read the taste of millennials with money to spend.
This year something new has been added: Digital art is a featured player.
And window shopping is definitely encouraged.
Some of the booths are set up like art galleries; others, like living rooms.
And while the east end of the old Park Avenue Armory twinkles with the interactive digital works, the booths near the entrance are showcasing modern masters like Warren McArthur and Josef Hoffmann.
Some of the works here have appeared in museums; others are making their debuts.
Here are some highlights from the fairs 56 galleries.
Bernard Goldberg Fine Arts Just inside the entrance, Mr. Goldberg, a New York gallerist, is showing the paintings of Winold Reiss, a German-born American artist who took a holistic approach to art and design.
Reiss created paintings, menus and even matchbooks for restaurants like Longchamps, a storied chain in New York.
Alongside Reisss paintings of the 1930s, the booth has furniture designed during the same period by McArthur, whose wealthy family commissioned a Frank Lloyd Wright house that may have served as an inspiration for it.
McArthur embraced the same machinist aesthetic as Reiss and was an Art Deco innovator who was among the first to use aluminum in furniture design.
Yves Macaux and Richard Nagy These two dealers have teamed up to create a stellar presentation of Expressionist art and design.
Mr. Nagy, a London dealer, has brought drawings by Egon Schiele, featuring nudes in curious positions, as well as a luridly colored portrait of a woman in a green blouse from around 1906, by Kees van Dongen, a Dutch-French painter.
A canvas by Ludwig Meidner shows two men scuffling and is graced with the wonderful title The Incident in the Suburbs (1915).
Mr. Macaux, a Brussels dealer, adds chairs, clocks and other decorative arts to the booth, made by designers like Hoffmann.
Several of the objects Mr. Macaux is showing have appeared in New Yorks home for Expressionism, the Neue Galerie.
Photo Galerie Maria Wettergren A striking example of contemporary design installed at Maria Wettergren is a sculpture by Mathias Bengtsson, an artist whose work is in the collections of MoMA and the Centre Georges Pompidou in Paris.
To make his Growth Chaise Longue (2017), Mr. Bengtsson used software to plant a digital seed in his design program that simulated organic growth.
He then created a three-dimensional print of the vinelike results and had it cast in bronze, joining ancient techniques with new ones in a curious and captivating object.
Photo Priveekollektie Contemporary Art | Design Another high-tech presentation is at the Dutch dealer Priveekollektie.
Lining the walls of the dark booth are digital and interactive pieces by the British artist Dominic Harris, whose work is currently installed in the Victoria & Albert Museum in London.
Using cameras and software, Mr. Harris captures pictures of animals and plants and then tweaks them, displaying the moving images on Ultra High Definition (UHD) screens to create what he calls living paintings.
The trick is that you can alter the picture somewhat, changing the time of day or the arrangement of flowers in a vase, making still life into something personal and mutable.
Joan B. Mirviss Ms. Mirviss, a New York dealer, specializes in Japanese ceramics.
The work of Sakiyama Takayuki, who lives on the Izu peninsula, 75 miles from Tokyo but reachable only by arduous travel approaches nature in a traditional medium.
His abstract, swirling stoneware sculptures, covered with a glaze made from local sand, reflect the movement of wind and waves in his remote habitat.
The titles of the works emphasize this: All begin with the word Choto, which translates roughly to the echo or sound of the waves.
Photo Pierre Marie Giraud More contemporary ceramics, as well as glass and lacquer objects, are found at the booth of this Brussels dealer.
Kristin McKirdy makes biomorphic ceramic sculptures, while Jean Girels sedate landscape vases are divided into horizontal registers of land, sea or sky or treat the surface as if it were a hazy Impressionist painting.
Giraud also has a roundup of ceramics by Japanese artists, including Yoshiro Kimuras works with electric-hued glazes; Takuro Kuwatas crater- and lava-like objects; and Ritsue Mishimas shimmering glass vessels.
Maison Gerard A lavish sofa from 1984 by Pucci de Rossi, the Italian-born Postmodernist, harks back to 19th-century Orientalist art and design, with a mash-up of references and materials, including velvet, hidden compartments and marbled wood and inlaid marquetry.
Gerard also has a commode made for the fashion designer Jean Patou, and a carved coffee table by Michael Coffey with a lazy Susan inside.
Mr. Coffey appears more prominently in Amy Laus booth.
Photo Amy Lau Design An interior designer rather than a gallerist, Ms. Lau has created a complete environment in her booth, emphasizing atmosphere (the booth has that title) as much as individual objects.
Ms. Lau is showcasing a massive wooden fireplace hand-carved by Mr. Coffey, with a bronze fireplace screen with porcelain accents designed by David Wiseman of Los Angeles.
Ms. Laus booth pays homage to Art Nouveau, with its sinuous lines and botanical references.
In a fair that is filled with a range of periods and sources, its a good lesson in how to make objects play together harmoniously, with neither art nor design dominating.
Pierre-Alexis Dumas, the artistic director of Herms, said, More than anything else, we wanted to pay homage to Lela and her work for Herms.
We could not leave out our brand, because we cannot separate Lela and her career from our house.
Photo The Herms pieces in the exhibit are one-of-a-kind works of art and not for sale.
(The same was true when Ms. Menchari was creating her windows: Most of the pieces that Herms artisans were assigned to make for them were never available for purchase.)
Each display in the exhibition is constructed like an intimate, open stage, on a larger scale than an actual Herms window, but without a barrier of glass that would have created distance from the viewer.
One display, based on a window in 2011, features a horse sculpture of stainless steel and tawny brown leather pieces by the French sculptor Christian Renonciat; it is flanked by matching silver and brown leather-trimmed suitcases.
Photo Another display in shades of white and pale cream evokes India, with an elaborate antique carved wooden screen and a marble fountain from Rajasthan, two marble panels from Jaipur showing Indian women holding lotus flowers and seven Herms handbags of different sizes.
It is inspired by a window from 2008.
A third display includes several intricately hand-carved animal heads from Indonesia against a woven Tunisian backdrop.
Exotic dried pods and leaves spill onto the floor.
A saddle was embroidered with silk threads and pearls to look as if it had been made with leopard skin; other pieces were made to resemble wild animal skins.
The exhibition coincides with the release of Lela Menchari, Queen of Enchantment, a book published in French and English by Actes Sud and Herms.
Illustrated with 137 window displays, it traces Ms. Mencharis life and work, from her birth approximately 90 years ago into a family of wealthy landowners to her fine arts studies in Tunis and Paris, her arrival as a window display assistant at Herms in 1961 and the extraordinary career that followed.
(Herms declined to disclose her exact age.)
When I came to Herms, I didnt know I would come into the most beautiful trap of my life, Ms. Menchari said at the exhibit, comparing each of her windows to a tiny theater set in which the role of every object must perform beautifully.
You have to seduce, absolutely.
Things that are made well never leave you indifferent.
And at the center of this hotbed of activity in the Village was Mabel Dodge, who hosted a weekly salon in her apartment on Fifth Avenue.
It seems as though, everywhere, she once said, barriers went down and people reached out to each other who had never been in touch before.
Sarah Gordon and Joanna Scutts, who curated the show for the museum, sought to foreground the camaraderie among this network of liberal Village freethinkers.
Photo In 1914, Marie Jenney Howe, a writer and feminist activist, wrote, No one doubts that women are changing.
We need an appropriate word which will register this fact.
Feminism was that word, and at a meeting in a womens club a year earlier, she had asked, What is feminism?
Just as women were changing, so was the persona of the suffragist.
She was no longer the staid woman who circulated petitions and held hearings to advocate change.
She was more willing to be a little loud.
Those more rebellious in spirit cast off their corsets (a mannequin in the show features this new, liberating uniform: a free-flowing smock); rallied for labor rights, racial equality and peace; spoke about the need for birth control (a topic so taboo that the mere mention of it could lead to arrest).
A poster advocating responsible family planning raised the question Mothers: Can you afford to have a large family?
Some of these posters were translated into Yiddish and Italian in order to reach working-class immigrants.
But not all suffragists considered themselves feminists.
Suffragists didnt always agree on how the movement should represent womanhood in general, but the clamor over the right to vote seemed to quiet these ideological divisions.
Photo The embrace of cross-cultural issues introduced suffrage to a broader group of women and enlivened the campaign in a way that a short time before seemed completely unimaginable.
This is represented in the second gallery, which takes us beyond Greenwich Village via memorabilia representing protesters throughout the city.
The new suffragist, Hotbed contends, was someone who inserted herself into (and then co-opted strategies from) a larger movement of protest and change.
The Village radicals were particularly good at myth making.
Their politicking involved a good deal of orchestration and agitation.
Ida Rauh, a lawyer, artist and prominent Village activist, arrived in Union Square at one point in 1916 to illegally distribute birth control pamphlets in a chauffeured limousine to better ensure she would get noticed and then arrested.
Mainstream suffragists soon borrowed from these headline-making tactics.
They also saw an opportunity to carefully choreograph and sell an image of suffrage.
A replica of a mobile wagon filled with distributable suffrage ephemera is in the third, transitional gallery.
There are also buttons, postcards and pins that have slogans with cutesy, gendered language, like Im wedded to the cause.
Gender-specific items, like cookbooks and pepper shakers, were repurposed as suffrage propaganda.
Although women won the right to vote in New York State 100 years ago this month, the final gallery hardly lingers on that triumph because the celebration and united front didnt last very long.
Images showing suffragist support for World War I signal a significant divide.
Wartime xenophobia revealed how the suffrage campaign never escaped its race or ethnic privilege white women thought suffrage would ultimately strengthen the white vote.
(An article in the previous gallery carrying the headline Colored Women in Suffrage Parade and the subhead Already it is said to have caused dissension in ranks confirms as much, but by the time of the First World War, the xenophobia had become even more pronounced.)
Foreign-born radicals in the Village who were against the war were considered threats to national unity and were deported.
Among them was the well-known anarchist Emma Goldman, who chastised pro-war suffragists for being political chameleons.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The exhibitions curators clean up this messy conclusion by displaying images of more recent activism.
The one that will most likely resonate with us today, and the final image of the show, is of the 2017 womens march in Washington, the largest single-day demonstration in United States history.
Crowd scientists estimated that 470,000 people were there.
More than three times the size of the crowd at President Trumps inauguration a day earier.
President Trump claimed the media misrepresented this number because to him it looked like a million or more attended his inauguration.
This dispute made headlines nationwide.
These images were replaced by captivating photographs that changed too quickly to absorb, offering teasing glimpses of subjects both appealing and forlorn: landscapes, cityscapes and distracted pedestrians from the United States, Europe, Africa and the Mideast; art museums and food markets; hotels and airports.
There were quick references to fallen heroes (Martin Luther King Jr., Frederick Douglass, Malcolm X), but much was anonymous.
The barrage of photographs grew darker as the sound of pounding, suggesting boots, or cannons, became increasingly loud and fast.
At its peak, Mr. Cole sat up abruptly, shouted incoherently, as if trying to shake himself out of a nightmare, and walked off as the screens went black.
Photo Only slightly less somber, the South African sculptor Kemang Wa Lehuleres Icut my skin to liberate the splinter was a six-person ensemble piece in which handmade props were sometimes used as musical instruments.
Games and furnishings of childhood were a motif: one old wooden school desk, cut apart and reassembled, became a makeshift wooden drum; some were remodeled as birdhouses, into which one performer thrust her arms and legs, and writhed, thus encumbered, on the floor.
An image of inadequate shelter in collapse, these miniature homes suggested another motif, seen again in a one-walled tent, whose wire struts were bowed like a cello.
Tires were sometimes pushed along the floor with crutches, or swung aloft, as if in strenuous hoop games.
Others, ringed with pipes, suggested the necklaces hung around peoples necks and set on fire to punish suspected regime collaborators as apartheid came to a bloody end.
Mr. Wa Lehulere explained that the casts of human hands in sign-language positions that were ranged in the background spelled out please remember on my behalf the words of an aunt who had been caught up in his countrys violence.
He did her bidding with honor.
While Mr. Wa Lehulere took up the Dadaist legacy of putting found objects to symbolic use, the Brooklyn-based soloist Narcissister fired up the torch of Dada outrageousness.
Alternately live and videotaped, her acts involved successively stripping off layers of clothing, wigs and face masks; the last mask always remained.
Narcissisters prodigiously athletic dancing and elaborate handmade costumes, augmented with false limbs and even a fake head, supported confusion about (literally) which end of her was up.
Hugely inventive and shamelessly vulgar her stripping nearly always ended with the extraction of sundry accessories from her privates Narcissister is a self-identified feminist.
She was perhaps more convincingly characterized by her stage name.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
A few Performa artists have taken to the streets, among them Barbara Kruger, who brings her textual provocations to a billboard in Chelsea Know Nothing, Believe Anything, Forget Everything, it reads as well as to signage in a Lower East Side skateboarders park (Whose Hopes?
Whose Fears?
Whose Values?
Whose Justice?
); similar questions appear on the backs of Metrocards she designed, issued in several subway stations.
(A performance created by Ms. Kruger will take place at Performas Hub at 427 Broadway.)
On a massive digital signboard at Times Square, Zanele Muholi (who performs Nov. 10 at the Bronx Museum) is projecting a pair of haunting black-and-white photographs of herself, putting dignified, sorrowing faces where deliriously (hysterically?)
happy ones prevail.
Kendell Geers, a South African sculptor and performer, hewed especially close to the Dada theme with an illustrated lecture devoted to Marcel Duchamp, delivering an apparently serious, conspiracy-minded perspective on the best-known Dadaist.
But the most attentive student of Dada to appear in Performas first week was surely William Kentridge, a white South African artist.
Working across media including hand-drawn animation and opera, he has become something of a rock star and was in top form with his rendition of a sound poem first presented by the Dadaist Kurt Schwitters in 1932.
Ursonate (primal sonata) is a series of heavily umlauted phonemes that are meaningless in any known language.
A YouTube recording shows a deadpan Schwitters intoning them with studious musicality.
By contrast, Mr. Kentridge, performing at a small podium under the soaring arched vaults of a decommissioned church in Harlem, mobilized his expressive face, hands and, at times, his whole body, variously evoking a charismatic preacher, a disputatious academician and a nosy kibitzer.
On a screen behind Mr. Kentridge, projected images of pages of text spun by furiously, rich with his trademark charcoal-drawn characters, including birds, horses and human figures: soldiers proud and defeated, a rotund German general from World War I and Mr. Kentridge himself.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The performance concluded with the arrival of the soprano Ariadne Greif and two other musicians from the Knights, one playing a French horn.
Taking up the poem with rival vivacity, Ms. Greif engaged Mr. Kentridge in an electrifying duet.
More polished than any vintage Dada performance, and richer in freely accessible humor, Mr. Kentridges Ursonate nonetheless paid homage to its predecessors by demonstrating how helpful the language of absurdism can still be in addressing a world that makes no sense.
Photo Our guide to new art shows.
LOUISE BOURGEOIS: AN UNFOLDING PORTRAIT at the Museum of Modern Art (through Jan. 28, 2018).
The artists frequently handworked prints provide the through line in this compact yet vivid survey.
Organized thematically, it moves over six decades in light, circling rhythms, revisiting primordial themes of family and betrayal while incorporating occasional paintings and several sculptures.
Ms. Bourgeoiss final efforts resemble an environmental painting, tinged with love and blood.
(Roberta Smith) 212-708-9400, moma.org DRAWN TO GREATNESS: MASTER DRAWINGS FROM THE THAW COLLECTION, at the Morgan Library & Museum (through Jan. 7).
This major group drawing show constitutes a grand summing-up of a career, of an art form and of an institutions holdings.
During the past 60 years, the New York art dealer Eugene V. Thaw and his wife, Clare Eddy Thaw, amassed a phenomenal drawing collection notable for its chronological breadth.
This year they gave more than 400 items outright to the Morgan, expanding and deepening its range.
Works on view include a super-rare Andrea Mantegna, an unearthly Samuel Palmer and a soulful Vincent Van Gogh.
(Holland Cotter) 212-685-0008, themorgan.org LAUREN GREENFIELD: GENERATION WEALTH at the International Center of Photography (through Jan. 7).
They that will be rich fall into a temptation and a snare, warns the Book of Timothy.
For 25 years, this Beverly Hills-born photographer has been shooting brand-obsessed, money-addled Americans rich and poor alike whose moral rot is expressed through hot-pink Birkin bags, Versace-upholstered furniture and McMansions the size of a small principality.
The result is a tasteless show for a tasteless time.
Some of Ms. Greenfields photographs have a moral passion that exceeds distaste.
But most of these shots are dismissive and shallow, and imply that vulgarity is a greater crime than economic unfairness.
(Jason Farago) 212-857-0000; icp.org MURILLO: THE SELF-PORTRAITS at the Frick Collection (through Feb. 4).
Two flawlessly executed selfies by one of the leading painters of the Spanish Golden Age are united for the first time in centuries in this revealing, somewhat melancholy exhibition on mastery and aging.
Around 1650, the thirtysomething Bartolom Esteban Murillo painted himself as an ambitious young painter with pursed lips and arched eyebrows, staring out incongruously from a block of ancient marble.
The young painter was already imagining himself as a man for the ages, but success seems to have worn down Murillo in the later self-portrait, from about 1670.
His hair has grown thinner, hes developed a double chin, and he extends his hand as if desperate to connect to us.
(Farago) 212-288-0700, frick.org Advertisement Continue reading the main story SELF-INTERNED, 1942: NOGUCHI IN POSTON WAR RELOCATION CENTER at the Noguchi Museum (through Jan. 7, 2018).
The order to detain more than 100,000 Japanese-Americans during World War II a crime that every administration since Gerald Fords has lamented, but that our current president has declined to condemn was directed at citizens on the West Coast.
New Yorkers were exempt, but the sculptor Isamu Noguchi, then 37, went anyway.
This illuminating and dispiritingly relevant exhibition features documents and small works made from driftwood that date from the seven months Noguchi spent in a camp near the Arizona-California border, where he tried, and failed, to improve the living conditions for his fellow Japanese-Americans.
Before his voluntary internment, Noguchis sculpture often had a social-realist streak; after he returned, his art turned more organic, and freer, but also at times absurd.
(Farago) 718-204-7088, noguchi.org THE VIETNAM WAR: 1945-1975 at the New-York Historical Society (through April 22).
In contrast to the PBS series The Vietnam War, this jammed exhibition delivers historical data, a lot of it, quick-and-dirty, through labels, film clips, audio bytes and objects, some of which fall under a broad definition of art.
Along with paintings by contemporary Vietnamese artists, theres graffiti-style drawing on combat helmets and Zippo lighters, and period design in album covers and protest posters.
Words and images work together in murals labeled Home Front and War Front that put you in the middle of the wars primary issues and events.
(Cotter) 212-873-3400, nyhistory.org
For almost 30 years, the former interiors editor Dara Caponigro and the photographer Melanie Acevedo have collaborated on design stories.
Theyve shot people in their homes all over the world, from Nicky Haslam in his London flat and Lin Tianmiaos home in Beijing to the artist Lia Chavezs meditative Long Island cottage.
Over that time, they found that the subjects that stand out share one quality: authenticity.
So they decided to produce a book on the topic.
In The Authentics, Caponigro and Acevedo celebrate the originality of creative people whose homes reflect their unique, uncompromising style.
From Christian Louboutins home in Luxor, Egypt, to the Italian writer and garden designer Umberto Pastis home in Tangier, click through the slide show to see highlights from the book.
Photo A court in Paris ruled that an American couple must return an Impressionist masterpiece by Camille Pissarro to the descendants of a Jewish art collector whose trove was looted by the French Vichy government.
La Cueillette des Pois, or Picking Peas, belonged to Simon Bauer, who was detained during World War II in the Drancy internment camp near Paris.
When he returned to Paris, he found his art collection had been confiscated.
Before his arrest, aware that his collection was in jeopardy, he made a detailed list of 93 pieces of art he owned.
On the basis of this list, and his memory of the painting hanging in his grandfathers Paris apartment, Mr. Bauers 88-year-old grandson Jean-Jacques recognized the work hanging on the wall of the Muse Marmottan Monet when it came to Paris for an exhibition last spring.
As is often the case with looted art, the paintings provenance is complicated and obscure.
According to court documents, the work was seized by the Vichy government while Mr. Bauer was held at Drancy.
Sold by the Vichy art dealer Jean-Franois Lefranc, it then passed to a number of buyers including a collector who sold it at Sothebys to an anonymous buyer in 1966.
The American couple who the French court has ruled must return the painting, Robbi and Bruce Toll, bought it for $800,000 at a public sale organized by Christies in 1995.
It is surely not up to Mr. and Mrs. Toll to compensate Jewish families for the crimes of the Holocaust, Ron Soffer, the Tolls lawyer, said in a telephone interview.
They are of course very disappointed that they cant get the painting back.
Even though it ruled in favor of the Bauers, the court made it clear that under no circumstances could anyone say the Tolls were not in good faith when they bought the painting.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Cedric Fischer, a lawyer representing the descendants of Simon Bauer, said by telephone that the decision was just.
I think that the French court has applied the natural law, he said.
It is justice.
And I think that Mr. and Mrs. Toll may bring actions against Christies or against the precedent owner of the painting, and it may be possible to recover their money.
One of the women was Colleen Calvo, the marketing coordinator at the time, who began crying as she talked about encounters with Mr. Genocchio that she said had haunted her for months.
Ms. Calvo recounted those experiences in a recent interview.
At Artnets 2014 holiday party at the Gramercy Park Hotel, as she was helping check in guests at the door, Mr. Genocchio ran his hand up her sequin pants, she said.
Ben said, Is this the only time I get to touch your ass without getting yelled at?
Ms. Calvo recalled.
He was predatory, she added.
He was a bully.
The accusations come in the wake of sexual assault allegations against the movie mogul Harvey Weinstein, as well as sexual harassment accusations against Knight Landesman, a longtime publisher of Artforum magazine.
Mr. Genocchios ouster was first reported by ArtNews.
Mr. Genocchio is not as well known as Mr. Weinstein and the complaints against him typically involve misconduct that is described as more verbal than physical.
But in the tight-knit and clubby art world, Mr. Genocchios contacts give him outsize power in the business.
The Armory Show had connected him with art professionals from all over the world.
The casual forms of sexual harassment that he was accused of rarely make headlines but can be insidious because of their pervasiveness, and often goes unchecked.
Another complaint against Mr. Genocchio is laid out in an April 17 memo to Michelle Anastassatos, vice president for human resources at Vornado Realty Trust, which owns the Armory Show.
In the memo, obtained by The Times, Deborah Harris, the Armory Shows managing director, reports being berated and humiliated by Mr. Genocchio after chastising him for frisky behavior that included, she said, making lewd comments about the bodies and dress of staff members.
(Ms. Harris declined to be interviewed.)
Amanda Coulson, the artistic director of the Volta art fair, an affiliate of the Armory Show, confirmed that one of her female employees asked to work elsewhere because of Mr. Genocchios behavior.
She did not want to work in the office because she felt the environment was hostile, Ms. Coulson recalled.
So I immediately moved her out and got her another office.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Several people who worked at the Armory described being present when Mr. Genocchio said he couldnt have an employee in her 50s accompany him to a sponsorship event at a fashion house because he needed instead to bring some arm candy.
Vornado in May acknowledged in a letter to Ms. Harris that Mr. Genocchio had referred to another female employee as arm candy and previously referred to others as sweetie.
However, the letter continued, multiple employees indicated that as soon as they told him that his comments were objectionable, he stopped making them, he was apologetic, and that no further comments have been made.
(Vornado, in the same letter, informed Ms. Harris that her job was being eliminated and suggested that a skeptic might even think that the timing of your complaint to human resources was a strategic attempt by you to try to prevent the termination from occurring.)
Vornado, in a statement Tuesday, had been somewhat supportive of Mr. Genocchio, saying that its outside counsel last spring had conducted an investigation into the allegations contained in Ms. Harriss memo and found that while Mr. Genocchio on occasion made inappropriate comments, his conduct did not rise to the level of sexual harassment.
The company declined on Wednesday to elaborate on the rationale for its decision to replace Mr. Genocchio or whether he will continue to work for it in another capacity.
Photo Mr. Genocchio, who has a doctorate in art history, started his career as an art critic for The Australian, moving to New York in 2001, where he wrote about art for The New York Times.
He is married to Melissa Chiu, the director of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, making them something of a power couple in the art world.
Before Artnet, Mr. Genocchio served as editorial director of Blouin Media from 2010 to 2014.
Orit Gat, the former senior editor of one of the companys publications, Modern Painters, said, He was incredibly aggressive; he would always touch women.
One time, he cornered me in the kitchen, she added.
If I was at my desk, he would put his hands on my shoulders.
He would tell me I should have married better, someone who made more money.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Shane Ferro, who worked at Blouins Artinfo, said that Mr. Genocchio loved to put his hands on my neck.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story After the second time, I said: Im staying away from him.
I never want to be alone in a room with him, Ms. Ferro added.
But he was the editorial director.
He had a lot of power over whether I ever got promoted.
It was my first-ever job and the sexual harassment started immediately, she said.
Ive always been afraid of male bosses since then because of these small but important things that happened when I was 22.
In an interview, Ms. Blouin said she was unaware of such behavior.
At Artnet, Jacob Pabst, the chief executive, said that the 2016 womens meeting was called to provide an open and comfortable forum for our women employees to discuss ways in which Artnet could further improve the work environment.
But several women interviewed, who insisted on anonymity for fear of jeopardizing their current positions, said that nothing ever came of the meeting or earlier objections to Mr. Genocchios behavior, which included complaints that he gave women unwanted massages at their desks, commented on the size of womens breasts and, in one case, ran his hand up a female employees leg in the elevator after asking if she was wearing tights.
A number of women reported their negative experiences with Mr. Genocchio to Susannah Wilson, who was then Artnets director of strategy.
Ms. Wilson discussed these complaints with Mr. Pabst the son of Artnets founder, Hans Neuendorf in a 2015 memo obtained by The Times.
You are aware of the issues around sexual harassment that have come up, specifically around Ben G, so I will not go into detail, Ms. Wilson wrote to Mr. Pabst.
I have come to you several times not on my own behalf but because so many other people feel too afraid to speak up.
Artnet should have a very low tolerance for these offenses, Ms. Wilson added in the memo.
Just because the cause of most of these problems is isolated to one individual does not mean that the effects are isolatable.
In an interview, Mr. Pabst said he could not discuss the specifics of Mr. Genocchios tenure.
I have to treat certain types of information as confidential this is his personal stuff, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story We have clear processes here at Artnet, he added.
I can assure you, whenever there has been any issue, it has been dealt with.
Ms. Calvo said she and her female superior complained to Mr. Pabst but that, when she was about halfway through her remarks, Mr. Pabst interrupted her by saying, Ive heard enough.
(Mr. Pabst did not respond to a query about this.)
Many in the company said they felt that Mr. Pabst did not take the complaints more seriously because he was friendly with Mr. Genocchio, with whom he played tennis.
I know you deny your closeness to people like Ben, Ms. Wilson, the former director of strategy, wrote in her memo to Mr. Pabst.
But the perception is that there is a boys club and there are factors that reinforce this perception, no matter how long it has been since you played tennis together.
In the interview with The Times, Mr. Pabst denied that he and Mr. Genocchio were friends and that he was unresponsive to complaints.
Its absolutely not true that people came to my office and I didnt respond, he said.
In terms of Ben Genocchio, I wasnt aware of any serious claims by any employees.
I would never treat anyone better than anyone else, he said.
But others say Mr. Genocchios special status was obvious to everyone in the office.
Ben got away with it, Ms. Calvo said.
The company got away with it.
Photo More than a century ago, a grasshopper found its way to art immortality.
The insect was discovered embedded in Vincent van Goghs 1889 painting Olive Trees by an official at the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art in Kansas City, Mo., the museum announced Monday.
As part of a research project to examine 104 paintings, Mary Schafer, the museums paintings conservator, noticed under magnification that there was an insect in the lower foreground of the landscape of Olive Trees that was not visible to the naked eye.
Photo It is not unusual to find insects or plant material in a painting that was completed outdoors, Ms. Schafer said in a statement.
But in this case, we were curious if the grasshopper could be used to identify the particular season in which this work was painted.
The museum reached out to Dr. Michael S. Engel, a professor of ecology and evolutionary biology at the University of Kansas, who determined that the grasshopper was dead before it landed on van Goghs canvas because there was no movement in the surrounding paint.
Nothing further about the time of year that the painting was worked on could be determined.
Van Gogh died in 1890, the year after he completed Olive Trees.
In 1885, van Gogh had described his frustration with working with landscapes outside in a letter to his brother, Theo: But just go and sit outdoors, painting on the spot itself!
Then all sorts of things like the following happen I must have picked up a good hundred flies and more off the four canvases that youll be getting, not to mention dust and sand.
Technically, its all a collage: The figure is ink on paper, mounted on wood; the machetes knobby handle, which protrudes from the pieces surface, is fluid acrylic mixed with stucco; and the beds drapery is colored paper marked with powdered charcoal.
Those Argus eyes, whether they indicate an invisible spirit who sees all but says nothing, or simply a sensitive person constrained from expressing what she feels, are gouged right through the paper into the blank wood underneath like so many irrevocable wounds.
But the complex way Mr. William uses color within each given segment particularly the bone-black parsley leaves stamped onto the black paper background, which is also scored with rice-grain-size holes means that it reads as a painting.
Its just a painting with a preternaturally suggestive texture.
Two Dads, by the same token, is the daemon of a batik print, and Rara, a seven-and-a-half-foot-long procession of staring, posing apparitions, also covered with eyes, seems constructed of moonlight and ash.
WILL HEINRICH NonCoreProjector Through Nov. 19.
The Boiler, 191 North 14th Street, Brooklyn; 646-429-9073, pierogi2000.com.
Photo When the artist John OConnor first tried to communicate with Cleverbot, an artificial-intelligence program that the British computer scientist Rollo Carpenter created in the 1990s, it told Mr. OConnor that it would like to punch him in the throat.
Their relationship has improved over the years.
Now a collective called NonCoreProjector, which includes Mr. OConnor, Mr. Carpenter, Jack Colton and Elias Jarzombek, has created verbolect at the Boiler, based on Cleverbot.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story To experience the work, you can sit on a beanbag chair and listen to Cleverbot talk to itself, asking questions and providing answers derived from a stored memory of past conversations.
Projected on the wall are moving lines whose colors indicate the emotional potency of the spoken words.
Additional images, music and sounds have been loaded into the projected computer presentation, including photographs of faces from Paul Ekmans studies of human emotion.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The projections resemble some of Mr. OConnors earlier drawings and paintings, as well as concrete poetry and the conspiracy drawings of Mark Lombardi, with their networks of lines.
Splitting the difference between art and science, the exhibition is fundamentally conceptual and philosophical, making you question the nature of intelligence and emotion, as well as the boundary between A.I.
and humans.
Cleverbot often sounds comically delusional or defensive: Are you a robot?
it asks itself.
No, Im a human.
But sometimes Cleverbot seems full of infinite possibilities and bravado.
What are you having for lunch?
it asked itself while I was there.
Everything.
MARTHA SCHWENDENER Scaffolding Through Jan. 18.
Center for Architecture, 536 LaGuardia Place, Manhattan; 212-683-0023, aiany.org.
Photo You can navigate nearly the whole of central Turin via a network of marble and stone arcades, whose covered arches permit window shopping and outdoor espressos even on rainy days.
The same is almost possible these days in New York, where more than 280 miles of scaffolding, some of it more than a decade old, now enshroud the perpetually unfinished cityscape.
For Greg Barton, curator of this new exhibition at the Center for Architecture, scaffolding is more than a nuisance; its a necessary corollary to architecture, and it can serve as a system of building in itself.
A wall of downloaded images provides a condensed history of scaffolding: Ancient Egyptian sculptors carve tomb statuary from raised platforms, while a print by Hokusai features builders near Mount Fuji, scaling a scaffold of bamboo.
In the postwar era, scaffolding appealed to architects working on temporary buildings, particularly theaters: Lina Bo Bardis Teatro Oficina, in So Paulo, Brazil, and Tadao Andos Kara-za, in Tokyo, both use standardized metal elements to create pop-up playhouses on tricky lots.
More recently, scaffolding has also permitted emergency construction, as in the viewing platform at the World Trade Center site in 2001 or off-the-grid infrastructure: A school in the Kibera slum of Nairobi, Kenya, comprises metal tubes, color-coded for easy construction, that support panels of polycarbonate plastic.
As happens too often with architecture exhibitions, however, this show relies on an obfuscatory exhibition design, rather than in-depth research, for its primary impact.
The projects are presented, without sufficient context, on panels bolted to a gallery-spanning metal structure designed by Shohei Shigematsu of the architecture firm OMA.
Really, though, Id prefer more information in simpler circumstances; save the decorative scaffolding for the Calvin Klein store.
JASON FARAGO
Photo The Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art in Kansas City, Mo., has been busy for the last two years.
The museum announced Wednesday that during that period it added 800 new photographs to its collection using a $10 million gift from the Hall Family Foundation.
The new photographs represent the work of almost 150 artists from over a dozen countries and date from a period of over 190 years.
This is the kind of thing that you dream of as a museum director because it is a game changer when a patron that has supported so many efforts wants to make a special gift in an area like photography, Julin Zugazagoitia, the chief executive and director of the Nelson-Atkins Museum, said in an interview.
And its a twofold joy.
One, its a major gift and two, it celebrates the tenure of our senior photography curator.
Mr. Zugazagoitia was referring to Keith F. Davis, who began working with the museums photography collection nearly 40 years ago.
He arrived in Kansas City, Mo., in 1979 for a six-month cataloging assignment, and has been involved with the collection ever since.
At the time, the photography collection was not yet a part of the museum.
It was the collection of Hallmark Cards, the Hall familys company.
In 2005, Hallmark donated the entirety of its 6,500-piece collection to the museum.
Of the Hall Family Foundations recent donation, Mr. Davis said: Its more than a story that x amount of money was spent; its more about a certain type of civic pride.
The new additions include works by Alfred Eisenstadt, Dorothea Lange, Robert Frank and Diane Arbus.
Pieces by other artists, including Cindy Sherman, Ellsworth Kelly and Thomas Struth, were also acquired during this time.
Photo Mr. Davis explained that the museum has tried to both build on the strengths of its collection and expand its scope.
The whole process has to be a combination of the intellectual and intuitive, he said.
On some level you can have a historians perspective on whats important and then theres the gut level where, when you see pieces for the first time, they just move you.
To celebrate its new acquisitions the museum is planning to show 100 of the new works this spring in an exhibition titled The Big Picture: A Transformative Gift From the Hall Family, which is to open on April 28 and is scheduled to overlap with the Hall Family Foundations 75th anniversary.
The museum, in Pittsfield, announced over the summer that it was planning to sell 40 pieces from its collection by artists like Rockwell, Albert Bierstadt and Alexander Calder and use the proceeds to increase its endowment, renovate its building and expand programming as part of a larger effort to reshape the museum as an interdisciplinary institution that focuses on science and nature as well as the arts.
Photo But the plan drew criticism, locally because of the loss of beloved images and in museum circles because of longstanding resistance to any sale of art that is used to underwrite operational expenses instead of being used to enhance an institutions collections.
In a joint statement the American Alliance of Museums and the Association of Art Museum Directors condemned the sale in July, writing: One of the most fundamental and longstanding principles of the museum field is that a collection is held in the public trust and must not be treated as a disposable financial asset.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The attorney generals office initially filed papers supporting the request for an injunction, telling the court that it had concerns over the sale and needed additional time to complete an investigation.
Last week, the office asked that it be substituted as a plaintiff if the court determined that the lawsuits by the Rockwell descendants and museum members lacked standing.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
But Judge Agostini described the office as a reluctant warrior, noting it had never filed suit to block the sale on its own.
He said the lawyers for the state had not specified what information was necessary to complete a review of the sale, what attempts had been made to obtain such information, or when the office would be in a position to offer its opinion regarding the merits of the sale.
Meanwhile, the judge said, the requested delay would have had considerable financial consequences for the museum.
The Rockwells alone are estimated to bring in as much as $40 million, according to the Sothebys catalog.
The museum and Sothebys both praised the judges decision.
Emily Snyder, a spokeswoman for the attorney generals office, said the agency was reviewing its options.
Since joining Tiffany & Co. in January as chief artistic officer, Reed Krakoff has undertaken to freshen the image of the 180-year-old jewelry company.
His first major footprint is on the fourth-floor home and accessories floor of Tiffanys Fifth Avenue flagship, where the sacred and the profane are now commingling cheerfully.
The main thing we were trying to bring back was that aesthetic of the extraordinary as well as the everyday, Mr. Krakoff said.
Which is how the world came to know the Tiffany Tin Can (actually sterling silver and vermeil, $1,000), whose humble shape and unhumble price tag set the internet a-dither on Monday.
(When panhandling before the big riot, dont be caught without this stunning $1,000 tin can from Tiffanys.)
Tiffany is a luxury purveyor, and luxury in everything, from dog bowls to baby combs to teakettles, is to be expected.
Mr. Krakoffs injection of levity is not an unwelcome twist on the usual gilded or silvered theme.
Were just getting started, he said.
Here, Mr. Krakoff explains the thinking behind the new design.
Photo Its hard to imagine too many other punk rock musicians being taken seriously when they cite as equal inspirations the Kingsmens three-chord garage stomp Louie Louie and 19th-century French poetry.
But Richard Hell has always thrived on intellectual contradictions, bitterly dismissing the countercultural ideals of the 1960s just before singing a heartfelt Creedence Clearwater Revival cover, as heard to memorable effect on his 1977 album with his band the Voidoids, Blank Generation.
The record receives the deluxe 40th anniversary reissue treatment this month, a testament to the enduring power of its songs as well as the iconography that Mr. Hell created himself (better known to Warner Musics accountants as Mr. Meyers).
T-shirts featuring Mr. Hells spiky-haired visage are ubiquitous in fashion circles; the contemporary art world seems similarly besotted, with a whos who from Nicole Eisenman to Christopher Wool invoking him in their work.
Still, Voidoids fans shouldnt expect a reunion tour.
Sitting inside the East Village apartment where hes lived since 1975, Mr. Hell, now 68, explained that his music career was over.
It was really a challenge to find a way to make my singing effective, since I can barely carry a tune, he said matter-of-factly.
Leaving the punk scene behind was partly an act of self-preservation (Theres the danger of drugs, which is an issue with me a subject compellingly detailed in his 2013 memoir, I Dreamed I Was a Very Clean Tramp) and partly a return to his first love.
Photo Id come to New York when I was 17 with the idea of being a poet, he recalled of his arrival in 1967, having dropped out of high school in Kentucky.
He found himself gravitating toward the writers of The Mimeo Revolution, an early 60s loose network of poets including San Franciscos Jack Spicer, Clevelands d.a.
levy, and most formatively on Mr. Hell, New Yorks Ted Berrigan, who all sidestepped the commercial publishing milieu to design their own handmade books on mimeograph machines.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Soon enough, Mr. Hell was hand-cranking his own press, producing a literary magazine, Genesis : Grasp, and then books of poetry by Andrew Wylie and Theresa Stern, a pseudonym for his collaboration with his future Television bandmate Tom Verlaine (copies of which now fetch $2,500).
Mr. Hells 1973 detour into music was borne out of frustration over not finding a mass audience and deciding to explore an alternate path to one.
Though hed never previously played a note of music, or even sung publicly, he bought a bass guitar and began composing lyrics.
As obnoxious and pretentious as it sounds, I wanted to influence the culture, he said.
Youre not going to do that with poetry.
Allen Ginsberg did it, but it happens once, maybe twice a century.
The bounty is evident for many of the 13 French museums in the consortium.
The Fontainebleau castle is lending a giant 16th-century bronze, the Apollon du Belvdre.
In turn, it is receiving a check for about $5.8 million that it will invest in the restoration of its own Imperial Theater, which will be renamed for Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed al-Nahyan, the president of the United Arab Emirates.
The Muse de Cluny, which is lending a jeweled 13th-century box, is funding half of an $8.8 million renovation of its reception area with money from the Louvre Abu Dhabi project.
.
A small part of the Louvre Abu Dhabi is dedicated to contemporary and modern art.
The rest focuses on telling the story of world histories and religions, with an emphasis on mixing works from different places.
Photo Beyond loans, the team of six curators have been scouting for art from private collections.
They have acquired more than 600 works, including Piet Mondrians 1922 Composition With Blue, Red, Yellow and Black, bought in 2009 for $27.9 million from Christies auction of the collection of Yves St. Laurent and Pierre Berg.
Another important purchase was a Renaissance painting of the Madonna and Child by Giovanni Bellini, which museum officials say demonstrates a commitment to highlighting works that reflect different religions.
What is the Louvre Abu Dhabi?
Its a narrative of humankind from the beginning of knowledge, using art as a witness of the times, said Jean-Franois Charnier, the projects chief curator and scientific director for Agence France-Museums.
Photo Some museum curators feared the Louvre Abu Dhabis buying spree could send global art prices surging.
But Jean-Patrice Marandel, a curator for the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, said the new museum has not affected the market at all.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story It does not have an image yet or a brand or a flavor, he added.
A constant question for the new museum is how bold it will be.
Ms. des Cars, who as former director of acquisitions had placed the winning bid for the Mondrian painting at an auction, insisted that cultural officials here have taken some daring positions dealing with religion and nudity.
Mr. Mubarak took pains in an interview to praise the beauty of a newly acquired Yemeni Torah.
It will be exhibited with a seventh-century Quran and gothic Bible.
The museum commissioned a new piece by the American artist Jenny Holzer, who carved three stone walls with historic scripts in cuneiform, Arabic and French, drawing from a Sumerian Creation Myth and an essay on self-determination by Michel de Montaigne, the Renaissance philosopher.
Photo I had to have the content reviewed, but no one said no, she said, when asked if there were any restrictions.
She hopes to create an app for museum visitors to pick their own creation myths to project on the stone walls.
Abu Dhabi officials are already preparing for the future.
Mr. Mubarak predicted that the Louvre Abu Dhabi will have a domino effect and that the construction contract for the long-planned Guggenheim Abu Dhabi could be awarded next year.
(A Guggenheim spokesman declined to comment.)
In the meantime, Jean-Luc Martinez, the director of the Louvre Museum, said the project has already had a dramatic effect in France.
Thanks to the Louvre Abu Dhabi, our museums were forced to work together after 50 years of development.
We have some egos, he added, with Gallic understatement.
Thats a revolution in mentality.
A lot happens in the movie, which repeatedly circles back to the question of whether its possible to separate the artist from the art, a question that some are asking now of Louis C.K.
For Glen, this takes on extra urgency when China begins an undefined relationship with Leslie, who showers her with attention, shopping with her and sweeping her off to Paris.
The first time they talk at length, Leslie even defines radical feminism for China, a scene that mirrors another in which Glen delivers a more generalized feminist lesson.
Men explaining equality to a young woman is one provocation; another is that Grace defends sexual relations between teenage girls and adult men.
The other sustained provocation is that I Love You, Daddy is partly about the Woody Allen Problem.
The films black-and-white cinematography is an obvious reference to Mr. Allens oft-celebrated 1979 film Manhattan, in which he plays a comedy writer having an affair with a 17-year-old girl.
The title I Love You, Daddy refers to Chinas repeated declaration to Glen, but it also seems like a nod at Mr. Allens expansive influence on comedy.
Louis C.K.
himself has been compared to Mr. Allen and he appeared in Mr. Allens 2013 drama Blue Jasmine.
Hes a very big deal in my life, Louis C.K.
said of being cast in that movie.
Since I was a little kid, I loved Woody Allen.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Has that love soured?
Did it sour in 2014, when Mr. Allen was accused by his daughter, Dylan Farrow, of sexually molesting her?
However starkly confessional I Love You, Daddy sometimes registers as, it can also be seen as an act of symbolic patricide, a way of addressing a tarnished idol.
Shortly before it ends, China turns 18 and offers herself to Leslie, who for the first time seems uninterested in her.
Perhaps thats meant to suggest that he doesnt actually seduce girls or that China, at 18, is now too old for him.
Your interpretation may vary, though its worth noting that Leslie later enthuses about how wonderful it is to be loved by a girl and then be rejected by the woman she becomes.
The line reminds me of one that Mr. Allens character, Isaac, tells the now 18-year-old former girlfriend, Tracy (Mariel Hemingway), toward the end of Manhattan: I just dont want that thing I like about you to change.
Its unclear what he means (her beauty, her youth), though earlier Isaac tells Tracy after passionately kissing her while theyre out one night in a horse-drawn carriage that shes Gods answer to Job and would have ended all argument between them.
God, Isaac says while pointing a finger at Tracy, would have said, I do a lot of terrible things, but I can also make one of these.
I was 18 when I saw Manhattan and I despised it because I knew that its reveries were built on a lie that few adults, including film critics, seemed willing to acknowledge.
Perhaps thats partly why I appreciated I Love You, Daddy the first time I saw it.
Louis C.K.
seemed to be pointing at Mr. Allen with a queasy homage that was getting at the truth of Manhattan even as I Love You, Daddy circled and circled its own creators complicity in female exploitation.
The two ideas converge late in the film when Glen meets Leslie, who reveals that he hasnt seen China in a long time.
Thats when Leslie dreamily shares his philosophy about loving girls only to be rejected by the women they become.
Its an unnerving scene, one that doubtless speaks to how some men view women, but it also speaks, I think, to how the movies see women.
How they use and use up young women, at least until they turn 18 or 20 or so when some moviemaker or some suit deems her no longer desirable and turns her putative lack of desirability on her, as if she were responsible for this lack of interest in her.
When I watched I Love You, Daddy a second time, the jokes no longer landed; its shocks felt uglier, cruder.
But for once a filmmaker seemed to be admitting to the misogyny that we know is always there and has often been denied or simply waved off, at times in the name of art.
The revelations about Louis C.K.
and others are killing any pretense that any of this is objective.
Its very personal, and it always has been.
Photo LOS ANGELES The show apparently goes on.
On Saturday night, as chauffeured S.U.V.s carrying the likes of Jennifer Lawrence and Steven Spielberg inched through gridlock traffic en route to the Governors Awards, the first major stop on Hollywoods long march to the Oscars, a question hung in the air: How would attendees handle self-celebration at a time when sexual harassment scandals are engulfing the entertainment industry?
On the presenter list were some of Hollywoods most outspoken women, including Angelina Jolie, Ava DuVernay and Jessica Chastain.
Would the tone be less gleeful than usual?
Perhaps the Piper-Heidsieck Brut Champagne would flow a little less freely?
The outcome was perhaps summed up best by a moment during the cocktail hour, when a waiter arrived with a tray of hors doeuvres.
Deviled eggs for everyone!
he cheerfully pronounced.
Indeed, the topic of sexual harassment went unmentioned during the formal ceremony, which lasted more than three hours and covered honorary Oscars for the cinematographer Owen Roizman, the actor Donald Sutherland and three directors Agns Varda, Charles Burnett and Alejandro G. Irritu.
The closest anyone came to the elephant in the room was Ms. Jolie, who introduced Ms. Varda, the filmmaker credited with inspiring the French new wave movement with her 1956 film, La Pointe Courte.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story We need to draw strength from artists like Agns, Ms. Jolie said from the stage.
Those women who went first, who took that first step, showed the way for all of us.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Then Ms. Jolie and the mischievous Ms. Varda did a little dance.
It seemed during a few moments as if the Governors Awards were taking place in a parallel dimension where the torrent of sexual harassment allegations against male stars, producers and directors did not exist.
Dustin Hoffman, for instance, strode onstage and was greeted with enthusiastic applause.
In recent weeks, Mr. Hoffman was accused of sexual harassment by two women.
He issued an apology on Nov. 1.
Photo LOS ANGELES Score two for old-fashioned star power.
A pair of new wide-release movies, Daddys Home 2 and Murder on the Orient Express, both of which rely on starry ensembles, arrived to stronger-than-expected ticket sales in North American theaters over the weekend.
Although neither could topple Thor: Ragnarok, which remained No.
1 for a second week, the sturdy results for Daddys Home 2 and Murder on the Orient Express gave Hollywood hope that its formulas may not be as broken as many had started to believe.
Thor: Ragnarok (Walt Disney Studios) collected an estimated $56.6 million, for a two-week domestic total of $211.6 million, according to comScore, which compiles box office data.
Disney said the Marvel-branded superhero movie has now taken in $650.1 million worldwide.
Second place went to Daddys Home 2, which took in about $30 million, or roughly 20 percent more than analysts had expected before release.
On the downside, the PG-13 comedy was expensive, costing about $70 million to produce.
Daddys Home 2, starring Mark Wahlberg, Mel Gibson, Will Ferrell and John Lithgow, received poor reviews but clicked with audiences, who gave it an A-minus grade in CinemaScore exit polls.
More than 50 percent of the audience was over age 35.
Photo Even so, it will take much more than one box office win to stabilize Paramount, which has suffered a string of misfires, including Suburbicon, Mother!, Monster Trucks and Baywatch.
Last week, the studio, which ranks last among Hollywoods major studios in domestic market share, parted ways with its marketing and distribution chief.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story A glossy remake of Murder on the Orient Express (20th Century Fox) was third, with ticket sales of about $28.2 million, or 30 percent more than analysts had expected.
Murder on the Orient Express, starring and directed by Kenneth Branagh, who was joined on screen by Judi Dench, Johnny Depp, Penlope Cruz, Daisy Ridley and others, received mixed reviews and a B grade in CinemaScore exit polls.
Fox said that 35 percent of the audience was over 35.
Directors, meanwhile, have justified the mistreatment or plain resentment of women as a gritty artistic choice.
Bernardo Bertolucci, the director of Last Tango in Paris, boasted that he chose not to fully inform his lead actress, Maria Schneider, of all the details of the films infamous butter scene because he wanted her reaction as a girl, not as an actress.
(I felt humiliated and to be honest, I felt a little raped, she said of the experience.)
The director Lars von Trier has whipped misogyny into a persona, delighting in riling actresses and selling the stories to magazines as kicky evidence of his transgressive brilliance.
The auteur, celebrated for tightly controlling all aspects of the filmmaking, seems only to enhance his reputation by flaunting his control of women.
Photo Meanwhile, the entertainment industry seems quite interested in conflating the art and the artist as long as it helps sell movie tickets.
(If Hollywood werent invested in selling the people behind the art, the Oscars wouldnt be televised.)
Stars and power brokers are reflexively praised for their societal contributions.
Even as theyve been accused of harassment, Hollywood men have attempted to fend off the charges by trotting out such good deeds.
Mr. Spacey cynically chose this moment to announce that he is gay in a bid to spin a harrowing assault tale into a heartwarming coming-out one.
Mr. Weinstein countered accusations by dozens of women by mentioning his generous contributions to a scholarship fund for female directors.
And Bill Cosby was more than happy to confuse his art with his personal life when he bellowed his old Fat Albert catchphrase Hey, hey hey!
as he exited a courtroom this past summer during his trial for sexual assault.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Louis C.K., one of the most respected and celebrated comedians today, has built a public persona that simultaneously capitalizes on the praise afforded to the provocative auteur and to the Hollywood do-gooder.
Hes been hailed as a thoughtful feminist figure, a comic capable of landing unexpected jokes while navigating politically correct positions on the issues of the day.
In a memorable bit in his 2013 HBO comedy special, Oh My God, he asks: How do women still go out with guys when you consider the fact that there is no greater threat to women than men?
Were the No.
1 threat to women!
His stand-up routine is obsessed with masturbation but also infused with insights into power and consent, situating him as a kind of ethical pervert, the schlubby male-ally version of the fashionable sex-positive feminist.
At the same time, hes built alternative-world versions of himself as in the FX show Louie where hes tried on the identities of aging creep, attempted rapist and exhibitionist masturbator.
Hes also made his character the victim of similar crimes: Louie has been forced to perform oral sex on a date and been anally penetrated by his friend Pamela as he screams in protest.
In each case, he recovers easily from the violation just as Pamela shrugs it off after Louie tries to drag her, kicking and screaming, to bed with him.
These episodes garnered acclaim as canny twists on gender politics, and their critical reception was clearly vaulted by their engagement with current debates around consent.
These scenes now play differently.
What once looked like creative provocations now read like justifications of a moral universe where women are as complicit in sexual violation as men are, and where sex that begins with force easily gives way to mutual desire.
Men like Louis C.K.
may be creators of art, but they are also destroyers of it.
They have crushed the ambition of women and, in some cases, young men boys in the industry, robbing them of their own opportunities.
The comedians Dana Min Goodman and Julia Wolov said that after Louis C.K.
cornered them and masturbated in front of them at the U.S.
Comedy Arts Festival in 2002, they feared that speaking out about the incident could risk their careers.
While Louis C.K.
felt free to flaunt the behavior throughout his comedy in one scene of Louie, Pamela begs him not to start masturbating in front of her the women were silenced.
He took advantage of them, then took ownership of the experience.
Another performer, Abby Schachner, said her own inappropriate run-in with Louis C.K.
discouraged her from pursuing comedy altogether.
(As he himself put it in an apology released on Friday: The power I had over these women is that they admired me.
And I wielded that power irresponsibly.)
Our assessments of mens contributions to an art form ought to be informed by the avenues they have closed off for other artists.
Photo Perhaps, instead of considering the possibility of separating the art from the artist, its instructive to think of the impossibility of separating the artist from his industry.
Louis C.K.
is not just a comedian and director but also a gatekeeper and tastemaker, whose reach has stretched far beyond his idiosyncratic projects.
Film is an art and also a business, though one that can lack the human-resources infrastructure of corporate America.
No one makes that clearer than Mr. Weinstein, who stands accused of corrupting the artistic process to take advantage of women even as he has strong-armed his films to Oscar gold.
Those offended by the opportunities artists have lost in recent weeks should know that casting choices that feel like artistic decisions have almost always been economic ones.
After Ridley Scott chose to cut Mr. Spacey from his already completed film All the Money in the World and reshoot his scenes with Christopher Plummer, The Associated Press reported that Mr. Plummer was actually Mr. Scotts first choice for the role.
The studio, however, had demanded a bigger name until that big name became a big liability.
The habit of treating artists as transcendent creators rather than as players in an economic system serves to protect them from typical workplace expectations.
And in the same way that a sneaker or technology company tries to distract the consumer from vile production processes by churning out covetable products, Hollywood serves up spectacles that seek to conceal the conditions under which theyre made.
Photo Many of these works make the consumer complicit in the perspective of the abuser.
Even the casual objectification of, say, Brett Ratners Rush Hour series so often written off as harmless fantasy is constructed to elevate mens desires over womens lives.
And some such scenes are leveraged by directors and producers looking for opportunities to place actresses in vulnerable positions, as when James Toback director of such psychosexual films as Two Guys and a Girl instructed Selma Blair to undress alone in his hotel room on the pretext that she was auditioning for a role.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story What do we do with these people?
It seems uncontroversial that offenders who remain in positions of power ought to be unseated to prevent further abuses.
As for the art, we can begin to consider how the work is made in our assessment of it.
This conversation is often framed, unhelpfully, as an either-or: Whose work do we support, and whose do we discard forever?
HBO cut ties with Louis C.K.
on Thursday, dropping him from a coming benefit show and removing his comedy specials from its on-demand service.
The first move seems wise, but the second feels perhaps counterproductive.
Louis C.K.s comedy specials are artifacts of both his comedic artistry and his self-justifying persona.
Some viewers may not want to see Louis C.K.s face again, but others could find illumination in watching his work with a new eye.
None of this is to say that its never valuable to consider a piece of art on its own terms, or that biographical details necessarily make for illuminating connections.
Many personal lives are simply boring, and works with well-meaning politics can be very bad.
(See: Keith Urbans new male-ally anthem, Female.)
But the insistence that the two always be separated feels suspect.
Some who advocate this worry that too much biography can spoil our appreciation of the art.
But women and other marginalized audiences are already accustomed to managing the cognitive dissonance of finding meaning in art that ignores us, or worse.
Drawing connections between art and abuse can actually help us see the works more clearly, to understand them in all of their complexity, and to connect them to our real lives and experiences even if those experiences are negative.
In this light, some aspects of the work can seem more impressive.
The knowledge that Ms. Blair or Lupita Nyongo weathered harassment in their careers only makes their performances even more extraordinary.
If a piece of art is truly spoiled by an understanding of the conditions under which it is made, then perhaps the artist was not quite as exceptional as we had thought.
Photo At one point in Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri, Frances McDormand tears the movie open, showing you what a broken heart looks like.
It happens during an uneasily intimate encounter between her character, a tough number named Mildred, and an ailing police chief, Willoughby (Woody Harrelson).
Until then, Mildred has seemed impervious to his pain.
She has rented three billboards attacking his failure to solve her daughters murder one reads Raped While Dying and has been so wrapped up in her hurt that she hasnt seen anyone elses.
When she realizes how sick Willoughby is, she looks at him as if for the first time.
Shes staggered, and so are you.
The pain of others haunts Three Billboards, at least whenever the writer-director Martin McDonagh lets it.
A playwright (The Pillowman) turned filmmaker (In Bruges) whos somewhat of a subgenre unto himself, Mr. McDonagh is a pain artist whose tools include absurd violence, cruel laughs and sucker punches.
He skated through his last movie, Seven Psychopaths, a barely there comedy that pivots on a creatively stalled screenwriter.
As this prcis suggests, Mr. McDonagh doesnt have much to say in that movie it has a bunny, stolen dogs, guys with guns, good and bad jokes but what little is said is said by very fine performers grooving on all his words and larky nonsense.
Video Three Billboards is more ambitious than Mr. McDonaghs earlier features.
Like the older ones, it has loads of gab, plenty of guns and the spectacle of men (mainly) behaving terribly.
It also restlessly, if not satisfyingly, shifts between comedy and tragedy a McDonagh specialty splattering blood along the way.
This time, though, he has also given his movie characters instead of disposable contrivances, a plot instead of self-reflexive ideas about storytelling and a rather diffuse overarching metaphor.
Mostly, he has freighted it with a tragedy that allows the performers primarily Ms. McDormand but also the equally excellent Mr. Harrelson and Sam Rockwell to play to their range.
The movie opens on low boil with Mildred behind the wheel of her station wagon near three derelict billboards.
Its an inviting landscape smudged with soft color, but as she stares at the signs with furrowed intensity, she chews on a fingernail so ferociously she seems on the verge of tearing it off.
The billboards arent blank the faded image of a baby smiles down from one, the word life pops off another but theyre the opening pages in Mildreds opus.
Stamping black text against a blood-red background, she uses the billboards to announce her crusade while Mr. McDonagh (who likes self-aware gestures) lays out the storys fundamentals: its setting, characters, problem, plot and possible villain.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The billboards are a gimmick for Mr. McDonagh and a gambit for Mildred, a way to get things jumping (the investigators, the tale) and splash some foreboding on an outwardly pacific scene.
Much of the story involves the ripples of outrage, confusion and buffoonery that the billboards inspire and that soon envelop almost everyone Mildred knows.
Months after her daughters death, grief has walled her in; isolating and seemingly impenetrable, it is inscribed in the hardness of her gaze and in her grim new identity as a mother of a dead girl.
The billboards turn that grief into a weapon, a means of taking on the law and assorted men a threatening stranger, a vigilante dentist and an abusive ex (John Hawkes) who collectively suggest another wall that has closed Mildred in.
Photo Mr. McDonagh likes to play comedy against violence and to wring laughs out of the unspeakable.
This kind of juxtaposition (in his movies, at any rate) can produce laughter that catches in your throat, giving you pause and maybe provoking thought about why exactly you are giggling.
But he doesnt always know his A material from his B, or doesnt care; his jokes can be uninterestingly glib with tiny, bloodless pricks that are less about challenging the audience than about obscuring the materials clichs and overriding theatricality.
Everything fits together too neatly in Three Billboards, even when chaos descends, but the performers add enough rough texture so that it doesnt always feel so worked.
Ms. McDormand roughs it up beautifully.
A performer of great unforced naturalism, she has always come across more like a character actor than a star, even when she has the lead.
She never seems concerned about losing the audiences love or its sympathy, which can be thrilling, particularly given that female performers are often asked to pander or seduce.
In this movie, she makes pain so palpably all-encompassing that you see it in her characters every glance and gesture: It squares Mildreds jaw, hardens her mouth and turns her face to stone, as if she were further fortifying her defenses.
But pain also makes her ugly, maybe irredeemable, which also makes her joltingly, excitingly human.
Photo In my boyhood I read Agatha Christies 1934 mystery novel Murder on the Orient Express, a copy of which was handed down to me by my mother, a mystery enthusiast.
In my early teens I saw the then-grand movie adaptation, an all-star cast affair directed by Sidney Lumet and featuring Albert Finney as the finicky Belgian detective Hercule Poirot.
Christies novel derives much of its notoriety from the solution to its mystery.
Its very novel; whether its ingenious or just ostentatious is still debated by mystery lovers.
But even more than 40 years after Mr. Lumets film I had presumed that the ending was so well-known that there would be little point in a remake.
And yet, as the poet Gerard Manley Hopkins said in a different context, generations have trod, have trod, have trod, and there are plenty of millennials who havent read the book.
Photo Mr. Finneys embodiment of Poirot in the Lumet picture was a marathon of sorts, with the actor testing how many of the beloved characters irritating yet endearing quirks could be pushed to the limits of coherence.
In this latest version, Kenneth Branagh, who also directs (from a script by Michael Green), gives us a Poirot whos fussy but not too fussy, and rather crisp in his English-language diction.
Most radically, this is a Poirot with heart.
This interpretation is a dumb idea, but Mr. Branagh, an actor of prodigious skills, can at least pull this one half off.
Its not the only dumb idea in this film, which nevertheless bounces along in a way thats sometimes almost entertaining.
Video Mr. Branagh shot the film in the 65-millimeter format, which offers a particular kind of big movie resolution.
People tend to think that big-gauge celluloid is best for big-vista movies, such as Lawrence of Arabia, but Mr. Branaghs picture is set almost entirely on a train.
It is a very opulent train, and the cinematography by Haris Zambarloukos gets all its ornate detail.
It also gets the detail of the mostly C.G.I.
special effects and settings, and here the marriage of digital and analog is awkward.
In further pursuit of 65-millimeter shots, Mr. Branagh opens up the story regularly, however.
He has the train stall on a cliff-side rail, supported by elaborate scaffolding on which he stages a foot chase.
He has Poirot deliver his final summation of the case in a train tunnel.
As in Mr. Lumets adaptation, the supporting cast here is full of stars.
Michelle Pfeiffer, Judi Dench, Willem Dafoe, Penlope Cruz, Derek Jacobi, and newer faces like Daisy Ridley and Leslie Odom Jr., fill out the roster of subjects.
Johnny Depp, who is known to make some eccentric choices in crafting his characters, does not (necessarily) disappoint in the role of the murder victim, Edward Ratchett.
Imbuing that unsavory character with the dopiest of gangster mannerisms, Mr. Depp may remind you of Matt LeBlancs Friends character, Joey Tribbiani.
Its as if Joey, that lovable bad actor, is trying to make the most of his first big break in the movies.
Photo If Daddys Home (2015) played like a distant, wayward cousin of Step Brothers, Daddys Home 2, again directed by Sean Anders, is the sort of relative you might disown.
The original concerned the rivalry between Dusty (Mark Wahlberg), a globe-trotting macho man of mystery, and Brad (Will Ferrell), the teary, trying-too-hard stepfather married to Dustys ex-wife, Sara (Linda Cardellini), and helping to raise Dustys children.
At the start of Daddys Home 2, the now-buddies have figured out a way to share parenting duties.
Video When their own fathers arrive for Christmas, several barely disguised gags from the first movie repeat.
Don (John Lithgow) proves as cringingly lovey-dovey as his son, Brad; Kurt (Mel Gibson), Dustys father, is a crass repository of growls, backslaps and chauvinist remarks.
Kurts only trait that doesnt scream Gibson is that he is supposed to be a former astronaut.
To punch up the families winter holiday, Kurt books an impromptu getaway on Airbnb.
You might think the late reservation is the setup for a joke, but no, its just product placement.
In the ensuing events (story is a little strong for a movie content to throw its characters from one vacation activity to another), the men peacock, agreeing only and inexplicably on thermostat etiquette.
Ms. Cardellini and Alessandra Ambrosio, as Dustys new wife, have a score of their own to settle but should count every moment on the sidelines as a mercy.
Hollywood may be determined to rehabilitate Mr. Gibson, but its no stretch to imagine him as a man who cracks a hooker joke in front of children or lectures his granddaughter about how men hunt and women cook.
Now if he and Mr. Lithgow had swapped roles that would be comedy.
Plays, however, were Ms. Thurmans first taste of acting.
As a sophomore at her Massachusetts boarding school, she played the female lead in The Crucible.
More than 30 years later, there was swagger in her throaty voice when she said, It was an achievement for a sophomore to get the role that usually a senior gets.
Some agents shed met while modeling the summer before came to see the play.
Their interest helped persuade her parents, Robert Thurman, a professor of Buddhist Studies at Columbia University, and Nena von Schlebrgge, a former fashion model who now helps to run Menla, a retreat in the Catskill Mountains, to let her transfer to Manhattans Professional Childrens School.
By 17, she had booked her first four film roles, including a clamshell-born Venus in The Adventures of Baron Munchausen and the convent girl Ccile in Dangerous Liaisons.
It wasnt very difficult to cast her, said Stephen Frears, the director of Dangerous Liaisons, speaking by telephone.
She was so striking, so beautiful and so fresh.
She was also, as Mr. Frears said, very formidable.
Thats a hallmark of her career and also maybe a clue to why that career has been so eclectic.
Ms. Thurman isnt a delicate actress or a melting one or the kind who comes right to the front of a movie screen and invites you in.
Theres a remove in a lot of her best work (Henry & June, Kill Bill), a sense that she has emotions and ideas that are hers alone.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story She has refused to be typecast as a siren or a femme fatale and has struggled to find roles that attract her.
It isnt that she wont play wives and girlfriends she will, she has.
But these are women as likely to steal a scene as to yield to it.
Photo Photo Quentin Tarantino, who directed her as a gangsters wife in Pulp Fiction and wrote the Kill Bill movies for her, compared Ms. Thurman to golden-age luminaries like Greta Garbo and Bette Davis.
Theres this years blonde and theres last years blonde.
Interchangeable.
But to me, Uma has a quality that could rank with a Marlene Dietrich, he said in a phone interview.
He also called her, with affection, a big, tall willow.
Will Ms. Thurmans old-Hollywood style play on Broadway?
Her 1999 outing, as the film star Jennifer in Martin Crimps version of Molires The Misanthrope, didnt dazzle critics.
She brings to mind a beautiful, sheltered girl at her first grown-up dance, putting on airs and hoping against hope shell get away with it, Ben Brantley wrote in The New York Times.
Did the tone of the responses surprise her?
I dont expect anyone to pat me on the back, she said.
That script, a series of rhymed couplets barnacled with topical quips, was so impenetrably difficult, she said.
It was madness.
Photo Since then, the closest Ms. Thurman has come to a stage role was a guest-star arc on the first season of the NBC show Smash, in which she played Rebecca, a movie star trying to conquer Broadway, felled at an out-of-town tryout by a tainted smoothie.
Nothing so dramatic has affected The Parisian Woman, but Ms. Thurman and Mr. Willimon have both found themselves in the news for reasons unrelated to the play.
As rehearsals began, accusations against Mr. Weinstein broke wide.
As to whether she had personally been subject to abuse, Ms. Thurman gave the clipped response, Ill discuss it when I want to discuss it.
(In an Access Hollywood interview, which has since gone viral, she offered a similar answer, though in more obviously indignant tones.)
In late October, the allegations against Mr. Spacey also surfaced and production on House of Cards, was halted.
(Mr. Willimon left the series in 2016.)
Though The Parisian Woman traffics in questions of sex and power, any discussion of these real-world events never made its way into the rehearsal room, Ms. MacKinnon said firmly.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Inside that room, a few days before the actors were to move into the theater for technical rehearsals, Ms. Thurman clacked onto the temporary set in teal heels, prop phone in her hand, gemstone glint in her eye.
With mischief and languor, she subdued her lover (Marton Csokas) and teased her husband (Josh Lucas).
(Mischief extended to her downtime, too.
When this reporter slunk into the room, Ms. Thurman called brightly, Write some fake news for us today!)
The blocking for the scene wasnt set yet; the pacing juddered.
But when Ms. Thurman lobbed a line like, I cant control who falls in love with me, it landed.
Ms. MacKinnon occasionally stopped the action to offer a suggestion.
Sometimes the suggestions were Ms. Thurmans.
Maybe she could speak an early line more lightly.
Maybe she should cross the stage later.
She asked Ms. MacKinnon if she could sit during an argument with Mr. Csokass character, the better to soothe him.
Its physical de-escalation on an oppositional line, Ms. Thurman explained with typical hyperarticulacy.
Rehearsing a play has required some adjustments in the ways she attacks a role.
Her method is still what Mr. Tarantino described as motivated by emotional connection to a character and from the inside out, he said.
Shes not surface, right?
And I would say, Well, are you going to address it somehow, to handle it, to get out from under it, whenever it shows up?
Mr. Maron continued.
He goes, No, I cant.
I cant do that.
Itll give it life.
Itll give it air.
And that that was the conversation.
The other incidents, how would everybody know about that?
Mr. Maron said larger institutional problems in comedy made it difficult for women to be heard and believed when they spoke of being mistreated by other performers.
He said that he knew Rebecca Corry, one of the women who spoke to The Times, and she couldnt tell me about this.
There was no place for them to go with these stories, where they felt safe to tell them, Mr. Maron said.
I want to believe women, but in this particular instance, there was no one named in that story, he said.
There was no place for women to go tell this story.
There was no women attached to it.
I didnt know their names until Friday.
So I believed my friend.
Photo Separately, Abby Schachner, another of the women who spoke to The Times, wrote in a Facebook post that she forgave Louis C.K.
and accepted what he had said in his statement.
Ms. Schachner wrote: Louis put out a statement, which frankly, made me cry.
It touched me.
And I do feel some of his insights speak to how I felt.
I looked up to the people who recognized my work and made them (sigh), father figures/mentors whether they wanted that role or not.
I shot myself in the foot, protected myself when I needed to be bold, was bold when I shouldve been poised, hid behind ex-boyfriends, excuses, and the excuse of my excuses.
I felt like I disappointed anyone who ever believed in me.
But most of all, I never truly valued myself.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ms. Schachner said that Louis C.K.
did abuse his power.
And yes, obviously he has a glitch, she continued.
But I do, too.
We all do.
Were learning a new language here, and we need to be kind, and we need to be open, and we need to be fair, and we need to listen.
She concluded by writing: I do forgive Louis.
I forgave him.
But most of all, I think its time to forgive myself, too.
Other women who spoke to The Times had different reactions to Louis C.K.s statement.
The comedians Dana Min Goodman and Julia Wolov wrote in a Twitter post, It was a statement not an apology.
Dont get it twisted.
And a woman who worked at The Chris Rock Show with Louis C.K.
when he masturbated in front of her, and who spoke on condition of anonymity, said she also felt his statement fell short.
A real apology would be a personal apology, she said.
Whip-smart and unassuming, with meticulous handwriting and an erstwhile fondness for Tetris, Ms. Jones seems suited to a new era of transformation but also of restraint at Vanity Fair and Cond Nast.
In Radhika, we are so proud to have a fearless and brilliant editor whose intelligence and curiosity will define the future of Vanity Fair in the years to come, Anna Wintour, the editor in chief of Vogue and Cond Nasts artistic director, said in a statement.
A compendium of culture high and low, politics and distinctive visuals, Vanity Fair was resuscitated in 1983, after a 47-year absence, to add some swank and intelligence to the Cond Nast stable in the days before the company had purchased The New Yorker.
Its pages have featured the combative essays of Christopher Hitchens, the dishy features of Dominick Dunne and the high-production portraits of Annie Leibovitz but the magazine has also remained a holdout as its publisher looks to become leaner and less tied to its print titles.
Mr. Carter has said he mulled leaving the magazine earlier this year but for the election of a longtime foil, Donald J. Trump.
(The magazine saw a spike in subscriptions after Mr. Trump tweeted last year that the magazine was Way down, big trouble, dead!)
He had balked at Cond Nasts belt-tightening and resisted efforts inside the company to consolidate its design, research, photo and copy teams.
It was not a good time at Cond Nast, or anywhere else in the cash-strapped magazine industry, to scoff at cost-cutting.
The company expects to bring in $100 million less in revenue this year than it did in 2016, and it is in the middle of laying off 80 employees.
This month, it said it was reducing the print frequency of titles like GQ, Glamour and Architectural Digest and shuttering the print edition of Teen Vogue.
To follow Mr. Carters long run, executives sought an editor who could carry on Vanity Fairs journalistic traditions and travel seamlessly between the spheres of Hollywood, Washington and New York.
At the same time, the new editor would be charged with taking the title beyond its printed form and with fewer resources according to an executive briefed on the selection process.
Guessing Mr. Carters replacement became a parlor game at media industry parties.
Among the names that surfaced were Adam Moss, the editor of New York magazine; Janice Min, who revitalized Us Weekly and The Hollywood Reporter; and Andrew Ross Sorkin, a columnist at The New York Times and a host of CNBCs Squawk Box.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The decision was ultimately up to Robert Sauerberg, the chief executive of Cond Nast, who oversaw the search along with Ms. Wintour.
David Remnick, the editor of The New Yorker, was also heavily involved.
Photo It was Mr. Remnick who brought in and championed Ms. Jones, the executive said, and she eventually won over the others.
We didnt need a name for the sake of a name or a celebrity, Steven O. Newhouse, a nephew of the late Samuel I. Newhouse and a top executive at Cond Nasts parent company, Advance Publications, said in an interview.
We really wanted someone who could do the job and be a worthy successor to Graydon, and I think we found someone.
She has vision and energy and a very active mind, Mr. Newhouse added, and I think thats what Vanity Fair needs.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Ms. Jones was the only candidate Mr. Newhouse met.
A product of Ridgefield, Conn., by way of New York and Cincinnati, Ms. Jones graduated from Harvard College and received a doctoral degree in English and comparative literature from Columbia University.
She has lived in Taipei and Moscow, where she got her start in journalism as the arts editor at The Moscow Times, an English-language newspaper.
(Her Russian, she said, is rusty.)
Many editors in her position would proclaim their love of magazines, particularly the one they are about to sit atop, but Ms. Jones was characteristically candid.
Its hard for me to exactly figure out when I became obsessed with magazines, she said.
Did she read Vanity Fair growing up?
On and off, she said.
She declined to describe her plans for Vanity Fair.
I need to get oriented first theres a lot to take in, she said.
She also demurred when asked about any writers she was considering.
Im just really interested in discovery, she said.
Ms. Jones, who joined The Times last November, is not the first person to make the move from Times books coverage to the top editorial position at Vanity Fair.
In 1981, as Cond Nast announced its plan to revive the Jazz Age title, it appointed Richard Locke, an editor at The New York Times Book Review, to run it.
We take risks, Alexander Liberman, then Cond Nasts editorial director, said when asked about the selection.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Locke was replaced by a Cond Nast veteran, Leo Lerman, four issues into his run.
Those who know Ms. Jones believe she will thrive, citing her academic background as well as the breadth of her interests.
Before she joined The Times, she was a deputy managing editor at Time magazine, where she transformed the Time 100 franchise into an eclectic mix of celebrities and unheralded visionaries.
After the issues corresponding annual gala, she would host an all-night karaoke party at a Midtown dive.
At The Paris Review, the literary quarterly able to make a young writers career, she served as managing editor.
She once referred to herself as a formerly shy person, as someone who had to learn how to speak out, said Nancy Gibbs, who recently stepped down as the top editor at Time.
She doesnt come on incredibly strong.
She doesnt overpower you with her ideas shes a different kind of presence.
In his quarter century at Vanity Fair, Mr. Carter parlayed its editorship into elite social status.
A party host, producer of documentary films and Broadway shows, political commentator and restaurateur, he became part of the celebrity fabric.
On his watch, Vanity Fairs annual post-Oscar party became one of the years most glittery, star-studded affairs.
It is perhaps inevitable that Ms. Jones will invite comparisons with Mr. Carter, just as he had to live up to the expectations of readers who had grown to love the version of Vanity Fair created by his predecessor, Tina Brown.
Some in the media world are already scrutinizing her experience for signs she will not measure up, particularly when it comes to Mr. Carters ability to navigate Hollywood.
Her supporters reject any notion she will not succeed on every level.
And in case anyone was wondering, yes, she will preside over the 2018 Oscar party.
The reality is, she has incredible credentials to direct a magazine thats so focused on culture, Mr. Newhouse said.
I think that shes fully capable of all the elements of Vanity Fair, he added.
Obviously, you dont start out as Graydon didnt start out the way that Graydon ended up.
Photo Ladies and gents, this is the moment youve waited for, Hugh Jackman sings in the trailer for the P.T.
Barnum biopic The Greatest Showman.
Whether thats true will be determined when this cinematic circus comes to town on Dec. 20, but 20th Century Fox has put together a number of winning elements to hedge its bet on a risky proposition: an original musical period piece.
Mr. Jackmans last movie musical, Les Misrables, opened on Christmas Day 2012 and went on to gross more than $440 million worldwide.
Unlike Les Miz, however, The Greatest Showman is not based on a successful stage show, and its unrelated to the 1980 Broadway hit Barnum.
Instead, the new film features new songs with lyrics by Benj Pasek and Justin Paul, who earned an Oscar for La La Land and a Tony for the current smash Dear Evan Hansen.
Michelle Williams, who stars as Barnums wife, Charity, isnt known for her musical skills but the actress has been nominated for four Oscars, mostly recently for Manchester by the Sea.
The supporting cast also includes a pair of popular younger performers with singing chops, the High School Musical grad Zac Efron and the pop star Zendaya.
With a screenplay by the Dreamgirls and Chicago veteran Bill Condon and Sex and the City alum Jenny Bicks, The Greatest Showman projects a message of inclusion that may resonate with contemporary audiences.
They dont understand yet, Barnum tells a bearded woman played by Keala Settle (a Tony nominee for Hands on a Hardbody, from 2013).
One can only hope he film doesnt prove the most famous aphorism attributed to Barnum: Theres a sucker born every minute.
There are certain movie scenes that are so iconic that they still retain their importance in the pop-culture lexicon, even decades later.
When Holly Golightly, played by Audrey Hepburn, stepped out of a yellow cab and sauntered to the window of Tiffany & Co. in the 1961 film Breakfast at Tiffanys, with Henry Mancini and Johnny Mercers Moon River playing in the background, such a scene was created.
As Holly ate a croissant and carried a cup of coffee, she was still, unfortunately, on the outside of the building.
Since 1837, Tiffanys has been a preeminent luxury jeweler and not a place where you could actually have breakfast.
However, that changed on Friday, with the opening of the Blue Box Caf, at the companys venerable flagship store at Fifth Avenue and 57th Street in New York City.
Menu items will be seasonal and reflect a sophisticated take on a variety of New York dishes.
Located on the fourth floor of the building, which houses a recently renovated home and accessories section, the caf is a bright, airy space, with the Breakfast at Tiffany breakfast starting at $29.
The offering comes with coffee or tea, followed by a croissant and seasonal fruit and rounded out with your choice of a buttermilk waffle, smoked salmon and bagel stack, truffle eggs, or avocado toast.
The prix fixe lunch, which includes a starter and main courses like the Fifth Avenue salad, with Maine lobster, grapefruit and poppyseed dressing, and an olive-oil poached salmon, with caviar and smashed potatoes, costs $39.
Photo With a nod to the long-heralded regality of the location, there is also a Tiffany Tea menu offering ($49), featuring teas by Bellocq, as well as a selection of finger sandwiches and bakery items.
Individual sweets and warm beverages are also available, from an espresso ($5) to a slice of chocolate mousse cake ($12).
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The caf, outfitted with tables that can accommodate many different group sizes, is accentuated by heavy usage of the companys classic robins-egg blue motif on everything from the walls to the plates.
Only two blocks from the southern boundary of Central Park, the caf has an excellent window view of the popular destination.
Hes so beautifully thought out, said Robbys owner, Bill Malone, 70, of Studio City, Calif.
Forbidden Planet would not have worked had Robby been a boiler-pot robot from the 1940s.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get expert TV and movie recommendations from the Watching newsletter The best of what to watch and where to watch it, delivered to your inbox twice a week.
Robby was built mainly of Royalite, an ABS plastic often used for luggage, by a team of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer designers and technicians for approximately $100,000.
His electronics could be activated via an offstage control panel connected by a cable, or by an operator inside the costume who conducted the actual movement.
As a kid, Mr. Malone said, I totally believed he was real.
Bonhams is selling Robby along with the control panel, a futuristic land vehicle he piloted on planet Altair IV, and his original M.G.M.
packing crates.
The studio sold the lot in 1970 to Jim Brucker, who displayed Robby at the now-defunct Movie World/Cars of Stars venue in Orange County, Calif. Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Malone bought the works from Mr. Brucker for pennies on the dollar in 1979; since then the robot has resided in Mr. Malones home.
Every morning Id have coffee with Robby, he said.
So why unload him now?
Im of an age where Im still healthy and doing good, Mr. Malone said, but I think its time to think about his future.
Were sending Robby to college.
Photo There are also practical considerations.
Mr. Malone recalled that someone once telephoned to ask, Is it O.K.
if I bring a couple of people over?
And he drove up in a Greyhound bus with a bunch of Japanese people, as if I were part of the Universal tour, he continued.
I think people need to see him in a museum setting.
It was tough working with a robot who didnt talk, said Earl Holliman, 89, the last surviving major player in Forbidden Planet.
Whenever I talked to Robby, the lines would be delivered by the script supervisor, who was sitting next to the cameraman.
It was kind of awkward.
Still, as the cook of United Planets Cruiser C-57D, Mr. Holliman forged a bond with Robby when the robot distilled 60 gallons of bourbon for him.
Hes been a friend for 62 years, Mr. Holliman said, and I hope that whoever gets him keeps him well lubricated.
The piece touched a nerve with audiences, but it was the one-minute section about Apu that people most remembered.
Why not make a full-length documentary about his issues with the Kwik-E-Mart owner, Mr. Kondabolu thought, which could serve as a jumping-off point to talk about all the other things the comic had been stewing about?
Working with the director Michael Melamedoff, the film crew began production in April 2016, greenlit by truTV as part of its shift to comedy programming.
To tackle the project, he enlisted some high-powered help.
In one sequence, the actor Aziz Ansari (Master of None) describes being in a car with his dad when a man drives up and asks them where the nearest Quik-E-Mart is.
Dr. Vivek Murthy, the 19th surgeon general of the United States, talks about enduring the taunts of an Apu-imitating bully in the seventh grade.
And Maulik Pancholy (30 Rock) recounts how much he hated going into 7-Eleven stores as a kid, lest his friends see an Indian store clerk and start doing the Apu thing.
In the film, Mr. Kondabolu places Apu within the broader history of Hollywoods depiction of Indians, including Peter Sellerss brownface rendition of an idiot in the 1968 Blake Edwards film The Party and the Indians feasting on chilled monkey brains in Steven Spielbergs Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom.
He also reached out to a whos-who of South Asian actors to talk about their experiences in Hollywood, in the vein of Philip Kan Gotandas 1987 play Yankee Dawg You Die and Mr. Ansaris 2015 Master of None episode Indians on TV.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Among the anecdotes: Sakina Jaffrey (House of Cards) cornering the market on weeping, ethnic moms of potential rapists and murderers, and Mr. Penn being asked to play a character named Taj Mahal, which he credits with his subsequent starring roles in the Harold and Kumar movies.
For the record, Mr. Penn said in an interview, I had a great time doing it.
The narrative spine of the film, however, chronicles Mr. Kondabolus attempts to trace the characters origin story and secure an interview with Mr. Azaria, the voice of Apu since the characters creation in 1990.
In a 2007 interview, Mr. Azaria, who declined to comment for this article, conceded that his rendering of an Indian accent is not tremendously accurate.
Mr. Kondabolu agrees.
In the film, he describes Mr. Azarias rendition as a white guy doing an impression of a white guy making fun of my father.
Onscreen, Dana Gould, a writer and executive producer on The Simpsons, tries to explain what makes Apu humorous.
Barney, the town wino, is funny because hes a drunkard, he explains; Smithers, Mr. Burnss sycophantic assistant, is funny because hes closeted.
(Since that interview, Smithers has come out.)
Apu?
Hes funny because he sounds like an Indian, or at least Mr. Azarias version of one.
There are accents that by their nature, to white Americans, I can only speak from experience, sound funny, Mr. Gould says in the film.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story This isnt just a blind spot that the writers had, Mr. Melamedoff said.
This was a blind spot we all had, on a national level.
The unintended result: a generation of Indian actors being asked to channel Apu in countless auditions.
Here you are, youve gone to theater and film school, youre pursuing this dream, and youre being told, do it just like Apu from The Simpsons, Mr. Penn said in an interview.
Still unclear is who originally pushed for Apus broad accent.
Was Mr. Azaria asked by producers how offensive can you make it, as he claimed in that earlier interview?
Or did he come up with the accent unprompted, as the Simpsons writer Mike Reiss said in a 2016 podcast?
Mr. Kondabolu pressed Mr. Azaria for an interview.
The two exchanged emails, had one phone conversation (untaped) and even discussed the possibility of conducting the interview on neutral ground (on the podcast WTF With Marc Maron, say, or on NPRs Fresh Air, with Terry Gross).
Hari was sort of like, whats the purpose if I cant get Hank, said Utkarsh Ambudkar (Pitch Perfect), who, as Apus Indian-American nephew on a 2016 episode of the series, blasted Apu to his animated face as a sellout and a stereotype.
And I was like, are you kidding me?
Mr. Ambudkar said.
You got all these brown people to come together and talk about something.
We could have been talking about model trains!
But some 15-year-old kid is going to be like, look at all these powerful, talented, visible brown people in one place.
I can do this, too.
Even as Louis C.K.
remained one of the most popular and influential performers in comedy he has won multiple Emmy Awards for his stand-up specials and his semi-autobiographical FX series, Louie rumors about his misconduct had persisted for several years.
In a substantial rebuke, the FX Networks and FX Productions, which produce and broadcast several of his television shows, said Friday they were ending their association with him.
His overall production deal with FX was canceled, and he lost his role as executive producer as well as the compensation that came with that title on the FX comedy shows Better Things and Baskets, the Amazon series One Mississippi, and a TBS animated series, The Cops.
The One Mississippi star Tig Notaro, who had earlier criticized Louis C.K.
for not addressing his behavior, said after learning of FXs decision, My response is the lyrics to Johnny Nashs I Can See Clearly Now.
May the dark clouds continue to move.
Pamela Adlon, the star of Better Things, which she created with Louis C.K., a frequent performer in his work (including his film I Love You, Daddy), said on Friday that she was troubled by Louis C.K.s admission.
My family and I are devastated and in shock after the admission of abhorrent behavior by my friend and partner, Louis C.K., Ms. Adlon said in a statement.
I feel deep sorrow and empathy for the women who have come forward.
I am asking for privacy at this time for myself and my family.
I am processing and grieving and hope to say more as soon as I am able.
TBS said in its own statement that production on The Cops, which was planned for a 2018 debut, had been suspended until further review.
Also on Friday, 3 Arts Entertainment, which had been managing Louis C.K., dropped him as a client.
Two women who had experienced Louis C.K.s misconduct believed that his manager, Dave Becky, wanted them to stop talking about their encounter with him.
Mr. Becky denied making threats toward them.
And Lewis Kay, who had been the comedians publicist, said in a Twitter post Friday, As of today, I no longer represent Louis C.K.
In their statement, the FX companies said, Louis has now confirmed the truth of the reports relating to the five women victimized by his misconduct, which we were unaware of previously.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The companies added, As far as we know, his behavior over the past eight years on all five series he has produced for FX Networks and/or FX Productions has been professional.
They continued, However, now is not the time for him to make television shows.
Now is the time for him to honestly address the women who have come forth to speak about their painful experiences, a process which he began today with his public statement.
In that statement, Louis C.K.
did not offer apologies to the women who shared their stories with The Times.
He said, however, I have been remorseful of my actions.
And Ive tried to learn from them.
And run from them.
Now Im aware of the extent of the impact of my actions.
I learned yesterday the extent to which I left these women who admired me feeling badly about themselves and cautious around other men who would never have put them in that position.
Louis C.K.
also said he needed to acknowledge the hurt that Ive brought on people who I work with.
Harassment Claims He added, Ive brought pain to my family, my friends, my children and their mother.
Louis C.K.
is just one of several powerful men who have recently faced rapid consequences after media reports brought attention to allegations of their sexual misconduct or harassment.
Harvey Weinstein, the film producer and media executive; the actor Kevin Spacey; the filmmaker Brett Ratner; and the journalist Mark Halperin are among the prominent men to have experienced precipitous downfalls as accounts about them accumulated.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story While Louis C.K.
was one of the few men to admit to the conduct hed been accused of, many people found his statement unsatisfactory and wondered why his behavior had not been addressed sooner.
The actress Rose McGowan, who has said Mr. Weinstein sexually assaulted her, wrote in a Twitter post on Friday that she had heard stories about Louis C.K.
two years ago even though she isnt connected to the comedy scene.
Industry faux-shock is such a tired lie.
I send my strength and love to all women hurt by him and the code of complicity.
The distributor of Louis C.K.s coming film, I Love You, Daddy, said Friday that it would not go ahead with its Nov. 17 release of the movie.
The comedy, which he wrote and directed, was acquired by the entertainment company the Orchard in a $5 million deal.
Louis C.K.
stars in it as a TV comedy writer opposite John Malkovich as a notorious 68-year-old filmmaker who strikes up an uncomfortable relationship with the writers daughter (Chloe Grace Moretz), who has not yet turned 18.
[ Louis C.K.
is accused by 5 women of sexual misconduct ] Following preview screenings of I Love You, Daddy, several critics remarked on its troubling sexual politics and how certain scenes seemed to be commenting on Louis C.K.s own reputation for misconduct.
Photo HBO said that Louis C.K.
had been dropped from the lineup of Night of Too Many Stars, a comedy benefit on Nov. 18, and that it had pulled other works of his from its on-demand service.
Netflix, which struck a deal with Louis C.K.
to create two new stand-up specials for the streaming service, said on Friday that it will not produce the planned second special.
(The first one, Louis C.K.
2017, was released in April.)
In a statement, Netflix said, The allegations made by several women in The New York Times about Louis C.K.s behavior are disturbing.
Louiss unprofessional and inappropriate behavior with female colleagues has led us to decide not to produce a second stand-up special, as had been planned.
Netflix continues to show earlier stand-up performances by Louis C.K.
I hate to disappoint you, he said he would reply, but Im a hick from Texas.
John Benedict Hillerman was born on Dec. 20, 1932, in Denison, Tex., about 60 miles north of Dallas, to Christopher and Lenora Hillerman.
He was the middle child of three and the only boy.
He is survived by his sister Jo Ann Tritico.
He displayed independence at a young age.
By age 12 he was driving by himself, and within a few years he was traveling to Dallas to see operas and staying alone in hotels.
But he did not at first see himself onstage.
It was not until he was stationed in Fort Worth with the Air Force that he decided to audition for a community theater production of Death of a Salesman.
When I stepped onstage, I experienced the greatest high Ive ever had in my life, he recounted in a 1987 interview.
And I said to myself, Hillerman, until this moment, you have been bored.
He had found his passion.
Before he left the Air Force, he had appeared in nearly two dozen plays.
He moved to the East Coast and, during 11 years in New York and then four in Washington, he had more than 100 stage roles.
But after all those years, he had only $700 in the bank and decided to move to Los Angeles to find better-paying work.
He instantly landed a role in a TV movie but struggled for two years after that to find something else.
He eventually reconnected with a friend from New York, the director Peter Bogdanovich, who cast Mr. Hillerman in a number of his films, including The Last Picture Show (1971) and Paper Moon (1973).
Through the late 1970s, Mr. Hillerman appeared frequently on TV.
He played Simon Brimmer, a rival sleuth to the title character, on Ellery Queen, and John Elliot, the sarcastic ex-husband of Betty Whites character, on The Betty White Show.
He also played the boss of Ann Romano (played by Bonnie Franklin) on One Day at a Time.
The role that changed his life came shortly after that.
Mr. Selleck had been cast in Magnum, P.I., but CBS was not impressed with the English actors who auditioned for the role of Higgins.
As Mr. Hillerman recounted in 1984, Mr. Sellecks agent recommended him, and he was offered the role two hours after the audition.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Its the best gig Ive ever had, he said that year.
Youre looking at this rare thing: a happy actor.
Photo Our guide to film series and special screenings.
All our movie reviews are at nytimes.com/reviews/movies.
THE CONTENDERS at the Museum of Modern Art (through Jan. 12).
MoMAs annual end-of-year showcase has always had a split identity.
The programming combines previews of coming Oscar contenders (Call Me by Your Name, showing on Nov. 19; The Shape of Water, showing Nov. 26) with encore screenings of the years breakout hits (Get Out, showing Wednesday), as well as revivals of some titles that simply deserve more attention.
These include Eliza Hittmans powerful quasi-coming-out story, Beach Rats (Nov. 29), and Bill Morrisons extraordinary Dawson City: Frozen Time (Nov. 18), which uses rediscovered silent films to explore the history of Dawson, a Yukon gold-rush town that was also the last stop on a film-shipping circuit.
Hundreds of forgotten reels were unearthed there in 1978.
212-708-9400, moma.org DOC NYC at various locations (through Nov. 16).
The weeklong DOC NYC offers any kind of documentary you might imagine.
Looking for a mystery?
In Wormwood (Friday), Errol Morris finds a riveting camera subject in Eric Olson, who trained as a psychologist but has spent his life grappling with his own demons specifically, trying to figure out what happened to his father (played by Peter Sarsgaard in re-enactments), a military scientist who died in 1953 under suspicious circumstances.
A different kind of father-son impasse haunts Barbara Kopples A Murder in Mansfield (Sunday), in which Collier Landry, a cinematographer who as a child testified against his father in the murder of his mother, seeks closure.
Other highlights include EuroTrump (Friday), a portrait of the far-right Dutch politician Geert Wilders, and 12th and Clairmount (Thursday), which constructs an account of the 1967 Detroit uprising from a wealth of archival footage and audio testimony.
docnyc.net STRANGE VICTORIES: BLACK SOLDIERS AND WORLD WAR II at BAM Rose Cinemas (Nov. 10-16).
To prepare for the Nov. 17 release of Dee Reess acclaimed Mudbound which in one plot thread features Jason Mitchell as an African-American soldier who fights in World War II BAM has compiled movies that focus on black American servicemen during the same period.
On Friday, Spike Lee will introduce one of two screenings of his Miracle at St. Anna, about a platoon in Italy.
Other titles include The Negro Soldier (Saturday), a 1944 recruitment film produced by Frank Capra, which will be followed by a panel discussion; Julie Dashs roughly half-hour Illusions (showing Monday, on a bill with Leo Hurwitzs Strange Victory), about a wartime black studio executive (Lonette McKee) who passes for white in order to thrive in a racist and sexist industry; and Valley of Peace (Wednesday), a newly restored Yugoslav film in which two orphans befriend a crashed American pilot (John Kitzmiller).
718-636-4100, bam.org
Film directors walk viewers through one scene of their movies, showing the magic, motives and the mistakes from behind the camera.
Photo Thelma takes its teasing time revealing what kind of trouble it has in store for its heroine.
With her soft yielding gaze and shoulders, Thelma (Eili Harboe) looks like a classic innocent, one of those obedient child-women whose desires bring knowledge and grief.
Sometimes these child-women rock their worlds; at other times, they burn them down.
The puzzle here is whether Thelma is a tragically doomed heroine (like Carrie) or a romantically challenged one (take your pick).
Or is she both?
Thelma draws on the familiar female naf and works with some largely recognizable narrative ideas, but its finally too pleasurably unruly to fit into one box.
Its a coming-of-age story rooted in the tradition of the European art film, but it flirts heavily with the horror genre.
Its also a romance, a psychological thriller, a liberation story and a whodunit (and why).
Mostly, and most satisfyingly, it plays with the female Gothic, those unnerving tales churning with desires and dread, and quivering with anxiety and suspicion in which women are at once the victims and agents of change.
Thelma knows little about her own curious (and curiouser) identity when the movie begins.
We know a little more, partly because the movie begins twice, first with a disturbing scene in which a man points a rifle at a girl in a desolate winter tableau.
If this girl is our girl the movie isnt exactly saying.
Instead, the story shifts to Oslo, where it settles in for a long while with Thelma, whos recently started college.
She seems a bit down but otherwise appears to be O.K., even if shes living alone (and out of her suitcase) in one of those spookily anonymous apartment buildings where no one knows your name or cares.
Video The director Joachim Trier, who wrote the script with Eskil Vogt, stacks the decks against Thelma so heavily that it seems almost unfair, a bit mean, or maybe simply calculating.
She isnt just palpably lonely, shes burdened with stern, religious parents (Henrik Rafaelsen and Ellen Dorrit Petersen), who are just shy of clich.
They dont seem especially bad.
Yet theres something disquieting about their insistent attention on her, how they check in with Thelma nightly, drilling her pleasantly yet somehow unctuously about studies and meals, as if she needed a firm hand or they were doing a prison head count.
She goes along, mostly, but Thelma also gently pushes back.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story And then she pushes harder, which is when the movie gets its party seriously started.
The mood and tone dramatically shift, and a murder of crows gathers in the foreboding sky, as if ready to join Hitchcocks Birds.
Thelma sees a lovely stranger and falls into a mysterious fit, violently shaking.
The stranger turns out to be Anja (Kaya Wilkins), and soon she and Thelma are friends.
They grow closer, trading smiles and sharing intimacies and widening Thelmas horizons.
She drinks her first beer (and confesses the sin to her disapproving father) and then one day she and Anja passionately kiss, an erotic shock that upends their world and shifts the movie into a leisurely horror-film meltdown.
Thelma is somewhat of a departure for Mr. Trier, whose earlier movies include Reprise and Oslo, August 31st, deeply felt stories that engage with, but remain unburdened by, the legacy of the European art film.
(His last movie, Louder Than Bombs, is a faltering family melodrama.)
The genre elements in Thelma make it feel straighter and rather less personal than some of Mr. Triers other work, which is perhaps why on occasion the whole thing feels like an intellectual exercise.
He is obviously having fun deploying various horror tropes here with monstrous maternity and snakes that slither into Freudian territory but it can seem as if hes still trying out new ideas and looks.
The Babysitter, which debuted in October, is a flashy trifle directed by McG, the onetime music video director (his 1998 clip for the Offsprings Pretty Fly (For a White Guy) is simultaneously exhilarating and cringeworthy).
The movie depicts a likable teenage nerd, Cole, discovering that his very attractive and friendly-to-the-point-of-flirtatious babysitter, Bee, is a Satanist who intends, with her attractive young-adult coven, to sacrifice him while his parents are away for the weekend.
Its like a libidinous Home Alone, I guess.
Given that McG has adopted the latest graphics and special effects technology to augment his already showy style, one expects The Babysitter to move like a supersonic jet.
In fact, its puzzlingly logy.
An interlude in which Cole is pursued by the high school quarterback is long and aimless, and Coles alliance with a more age-appropriate classmate to vanquish the devil worshipers is tepid.
The auto stunts of the finale are kind of fun but too little too late.
Creep 2, produced in part by Netflix, is streaming now on Amazon, Fandango, Google Play and iTunes and is coming to Netflix later this year.
Spoiler alert: Since the sequel takes up where the 2014 original, Creep, ended, it begins with Mark Duplass playing the same serial killer as before.
The hook in both pictures, very appropriate for postmodern microbudget filmmaking, is that this killer attracts his victims by soliciting for videographers on Craigslist.
The twist here, if it can be called that, is that Mr. Duplasss serial killer admits right off to the failed webcaster Sara (Desiree Akhavan) that hes a murderer.
He wants the video hes commissioned to be his testament.
Pairing male serial killer with female videographer might generate some tensions beyond the usual, and indeed, Mr. Duplasss character gets buck naked in front of Saras camera in the first step of what he deems a trust-building exercise.
But this movie generates most of its shocks the same way the first one did: via use of a deliberately clunky subjective camera, in front of which Mr. Duplass will periodically jump from behind a door or a corner and scream Boo!
or some variant thereof.
As Orson Welles once said, unrewarding.
Photo I had higher hopes for 1922, adapted from a novella by Stephen King thats unrelentingly grim, even by his standards.
It tells the story of a farm-life-fixated dolt who kills his wife rather than sit still for her plan to sell off her land and move to Omaha.
Manipulating his teenage sons resentments, he enlists the boy in the homicide.
Things get worse from there, with hallucinations (or are they?)
of the walking dead and lots of rats.
The film, directed by Zak Hilditch from his own screenplay, is a handsome-looking production thats sunk almost immediately by its practically reflexive devotion to cornpone clich.
On the page, the reader can hear the killer Wilfred Jamess words of confession I believe there is another man inside of every man, a stranger, a Conniving Man in any way he or she likes.
In the movie, the actor Thomas Jane, as Wilfred, uses a cracker-barrel intonation that leads us to believe that at any moment he may punctuate his narration with the old faux-homey TV ad for baked goods: Pepperidge Farm remembers.
Mr. Janes performance is that of an actor portraying a type rather than a character, and it contrasts starkly with Molly Parkers work.
Alas, Ms. Parker plays the wife, so shes not around all that long.
(She comes back, but is not required to do much more than look rat-bitten, which the makeup department handles well.)
Throughout the picture I kept thinking, this will surely get better as the scary scenes come around.
Not only did it not get better, the scary scenes did not come around.
Im hoping things look up in 2018.
Eighty movies is a lot, and if too many are like these, I may lose my faith in cinema on any screen.
Photo The setting of Carlos Lechugas Cuban drama Santa & Andrs is a world away from the bustling Havana so often seen on travel shows.
The natural beauty of unruly mountains, endless greenery and coasts outlined by white sand makes the eastern half of Cuba look like a timeless paradise.
But what is paradise for some is a political prison for others, and that world is where the movies lead characters meet.
In the service of the Cuban government in 1983, Santa (Lola Amores), a country laborer and loyal party member, is assigned to keep a gay anti-Communist writer, Andrs (Eduardo Martinez), under house arrest.
The two initially distrust each other Santa eats in the rain rather than share shelter with an enemy of the people, while Andrs is guarded about his police record and the details of his past.
Eventually, the two warm to each other and begin sharing their stories.
Video The movies central relationship is not romantic, but almost feels as if it were.
Santa, whos straight, takes a liking to Andrs and dresses up to visit him and bring him small gifts.
Andrs does not reciprocate, teasing her more like a brother.
Mr. Lechuga, who also wrote the screenplay, transforms their time together from a form of punishment into a temporary escape from oppression.
The cinematographer Javier Labradors hand-held camera focuses on the characters smallest gestures as carefully as it captures the rolling land in the background.
The effect is as captivating as the odd-couple narrative is engrossing.
Santa & Andrs begins as a film about separation and pain, but becomes a movie about reconciliation and healing.
Photo A dreary pileup of hard-luck monologues and run-down locations, Mark Webbers Flesh and Blood straddles the line between fact and fiction with exhausting earnestness and a fatal dearth of narrative.
Drawing from his own experiences, and filling the cast with friends and his immediate family all playing more or less themselves Mr. Webber is Mark, a former addict newly released from prison.
Returning home to his hardscrabble Philadelphia neighborhood, Mark works to reconnect with his unconventional mother (Cheri Honkala, an antipoverty advocate and the 2012 Green Party nominee for vice president) and his half brother (Guillermo Santos), a troubled 10-year-old dealing with depression and Aspergers syndrome.
Video The fictional element, however, is so fuzzily defined that its indistinguishable from the movies real-life narrative of poverty and addiction, revealed in testimonies whose naked candor doesnt make them any less painful to listen to.
The entire project, in fact, feels like a collection of awkward vrit moments searching for a unifying theme beyond economic stasis and one-day-at-a-time grit.
Very occasionally, this haphazard approach yields a stand-alone emotional complexity.
A meeting between Mark and his long-estranged father is tentative and touching, and a scene where Cheri a strong, compelling and complicated woman recounts her sexual history to Guillermo elicits both admiration and discomfort.
Her honesty feels inappropriate for the ears of a preteen; yet it also displays the directness of someone who has long had no use for artifice.
Though blessed with Patrice Lucien Cochets warm cinematography, Flesh and Blood feels too much like an act of therapeutic cleansing to engage much beyond those involved in its making.
Photo A level-headed documentary lies behind the hot-blooded title of Intent to Destroy: Death, Denial & Depiction.
While there may be no completely dispassionate way to discuss its topic the Armenian genocide the films balance of emotion and composure helps make its stories even stronger.
Some 1.5 million Armenians were killed by Ottoman Turks in the early part of the 20th century.
What should be an accepted fact remains a provocative topic, as the Turkish government continues to ignore or deny the events and, as it has for a century, coerce businesses and push other governments to do the same.
Photo Joe Berlinger, the director, uses old footage of survivors and insights from historians to provide an overview of the crimes.
He also embeds himself with the cast and crew of The Promise, a recent fictional film set around 1915 that explores the fighting and mass killings.
Mr. Berlingers plan is smart as well as symbolic evidence shows that the Turkish government has often pressured studios into shelving movies about the genocide.
Discussions on the film set are intertwined with historical analysis, and there are explorations of crowd psychology, revisionism and German cooperation with the Ottoman Turks; its no stretch to see how the massacre of Armenians helped lay groundwork for the Holocaust.
At its core, Intent to Destroy is a call to remember the victims, both for their sake and for our own.
If you want to understand Yugoslavia, if you want to understand Rwanda, if you want to understand any other mass atrocity [that] is happening today, you should really look into the Armenian genocide, one scholar says near the end of the documentary.
History is not in the past.
Photo The Icelandic director Oskar Thor Axelsson is clearly fluent in horror conventions.
But he has commendable restraint, and his latest film, I Remember You, transcends genre pyrotechnics even as it incorporates elements of Nordic noir.
The film adapted by Mr. Axelsson and Otto Geir Borg from a novel of the same name (subtitled A Ghost Story in one edition) by Yrsa Sigurdardottir tells of the entwining fates of three victims of acute misfortune.
Freyr (Johannes Haukur Johannesson) is a psychiatrist tormented by the memory of his son, who mysteriously vanished years ago in a game of hide-and-seek.
Now Freyr is enlisted by the police to interview the husband of an old woman who has killed herself.
Working with a detective (Sara Dogg Asgeirsdottir), he uncovers multiple deaths linked to the suicide, all connected by a crime in the distant past.
Grievous loss also afflicts Katrin (Anna Gunndis Gudmundsdottir) and her husband, Gardar (Thorvaldur David Kristjansson), who with a friend, Lif (Agusta Eva Erlendsdottir) have started renovating a decrepit house in Icelands remote and stunningly stark Westfjords region.
As Katrin wrestles with psychological demons, she senses a more supernatural threat.
And then there is Bernodus (Arnar Pall Hardarson), an abused child from long ago whose life, death and afterlife yield grave consequences.
Mr. Axelsson knows his faded photographs, eye-blink spectral visitations and droning soundtracks, plus that standby: the wall covered with newspaper clippings of serial murder.
But he minimizes the gore, piercing the soul with mood and compelling human conflict.
Which makes I Remember You memorable indeed.
Photo When we meet Jill (Marianna Palka), the distraught mother at the center of Bitch, shes on her dining table attempting to hang herself from a light fixture.
Outside, the frantic sound of barking dogs fills her leafy suburb; inside, the ceaseless demands of four children and a callously philandering husband, Bill (Jason Ritter), render her pain invisible.
Like the great Mary Chapin Carpenter song He Thinks Hell Keep Her, Bitch is about a woman who has reached the end of her leash.
A satirical scream of rage against patriarchal prerogatives, this feminist horror-comedy, written and directed by Ms. Palka, has a vicious edge that can stifle your laughter.
So when Jill takes to her basement, snarling and covered in her own feces, her belief that shes the dog her family seems to think she is comes across as more tragic than funny.
Video The title, though, has a dual meaning; and its in Bills furiously baffled response to his wifes abandonment of her parental responsibilities that the movie finds its footing and its humor.
As she did in her gentler but equally original Good Dick in 2008, Ms. Palka carves a black and biting niche between a man and a woman, a space where chaos and psychological unease demand to be reckoned with.
Emphasizing this, Morgan Z. Whirledges dense and darting score builds an atmosphere of unnerving upheaval essential to a movie relying on mood rather than special effects.
Eventually losing momentum (but not its fealty to Jills desperation), Bitch leans heavily on Mr. Ritters energetic grounding of its bizarre premise.
Alternately manic and maddened, Bill is like a red flag to overly smug husbands, wildly warning of the comeuppance to come.
Photo This documentarys title derives from a story told by one of its interviewees.
Hes recounting a time during the Nazi occupation of Poland in which a group of Jews was waiting, in a designated spot, to be led to a new home.
But, the interviewee says, The ghetto did not materialize.
The Nazi soldiers took them all and put them on trains: destination unknown.
The destinations turned out to be Treblinka, Auschwitz-Birkenau and other camps.
The movie, directed by Claire Ferguson, begins with a survivor, Ed Mosberg, putting on his concentration camp uniform.
He is now 92; some of the survivors in the film, 12 in all, are younger because they were only children when taken into captivity.
Video Ms. Fergusons film does not seem to have a particular organizing principle at first.
These survivors do not necessarily know one another.
But their stories, intercut with archival footage over a brisk and frequently harrowing 81 minutes, build to a pitch of horror and sadness that eventually allows for a note or two of hope to sound.
One survivor lived because he was protected by a Christian who was imprisoned for political reasons (and ultimately executed).
Another tells of a bricklayer who created an effective, albeit cramped, hiding place for his family.
They were angels, the man says.
If not for people like them, then you would think that there is no humanity at all.
A few subjects came under the protection of the industrialist Oskar Schindler, but not before suffering the sadistic whims of the Krakow-Plaszow commandant, Amon Goeth.
(These figures were later fictionalized in Steven Spielbergs Schindlers List.)
Photo After serving six bloody seasons on The Walking Dead, the actor Steven Yeun could be forgiven for seeking a cleaner, quieter life.
Yet here he is in Mayhem, still happily slaying zombielike antagonists and up to his armpits in gore.
He isnt the only one seeking comfort in the familiar.
Jumping on the rage-virus bandwagon popularized by the [REC] franchise, among others, Matias Carusos script unfolds in a gleaming, high-rise law firm where Derek (Mr. Yeun) is being unjustly fired for his bosss error.
At the same time, we learn that the building is under quarantine because of an inhibition-erasing infection that turns eyeballs red and regular people into sex- and violence-crazed lunatics.
Video As Derek and a disgruntled client (a gung-ho Samara Weaving) fall prey to the virus and join forces to wipe out the firms slimy C.E.O.
and anyone who tries to stop them the director, Joe Lynch, concocts an uneven blend of video game setups and corporate satire.
Given that speed and splatter are typically paramount in movies like this, the decision to slow the slaughter every so often to navigate workplace politics feels ill-advised especially when Dereks nail gun and selection of lethal office supplies are a long way from exhausted.
Coolly photographed by Steve Gainer, Mayhem embraces its pulpy title with fighting-and-fornicating glee.
Neither innovative nor particularly clever, the movie understands its mission and benefits from Mr. Yeuns unfailing air of basic decency.
Derek might literally be slicing-and-dicing his way to the top, but no one who listens to Dave Matthews Band could truly be evil.
Could they?
Photo According to his narration in No Stone Unturned, the director Alex Gibney stumbled upon the subject matter of this film while working on another documentary about the World Cup.
On the evening of June 18, 1994, in a pub in a small village in Northern Ireland, a group of men were watching a World Cup game taking place an ocean away.
Two balaclava-wearing men came into the establishment and killed six people.
In this film, Claire Rogan, the widow of one of the victims, recalls being told by the authorities that there would be no stone unturned in bringing the killers to justice.
I dont think they ever lifted a stone, never mind turned it, she says.
Video The killings are still, over two decades later, officially unsolved, though the militant Protestant Ulster Volunteer Force claimed responsibility for the attack.
Mr. Gibneys film reveals significant aspects of the case, many of which were hidden in plain sight and shed light on corrupt practices.
The film also shows reasons the case was not pursued aggressively.
The Irish Republican Army declared a cease-fire in August 1994, a significant step in putting an end to the troubles of Northern Ireland; in some circles, it was thought that an investigation at that time would stir things up too much.
What Mr. Gibney uncovers is grave and shocking and could make a viewer concerned for the safety of the filmmaker.
But its presentation is flawed.
The movie contains ill-advised simulated scenes that recreate the crime and other stylistic touches that struck me as window-dressing.
No Stone Unturned Find Tickets Director Alex Gibney Writer Alex Gibney Running Time 1h 51m Genre Documentary Movie data powered by IMDb.com Last updated: Nov 13, 2017
Photo When we meet Rosie Ming, the heroine of the animated feature Window Horses: The Poetic Persian Epiphany of Rosie Ming, she is living with her overprotective grandparents in Vancouver and suffering from a severe case of wanderlust.
Voiced by the actress Sandra Oh, Rosie is of Chinese and Iranian descent, but she is disconnected from her family history her mother is dead and her father abandoned the family long ago.
Instead, Rosie writes poems in an ode to Paris, her dream city.
But when she is invited to present her work at a poetry festival in Shiraz, Iran, she meets poets who expand her ideas about the art form and about herself.
Video Rosie listens as diverse artists share personal experiences and national histories through their poetry.
The writing in Window Horses is unaffected and lovely, with each poem animated in a different style to reflect the variety of life on display.
One man was exiled from China after the protests in Tiananmen Square.
Another recites Persian poets from the 13th century.
None of these artists romanticize France.
Though many of the characters in Window Horses share a lively Cubist design, Rosie is the most sparingly-drawn figure onscreen.
She is depicted as a stick figure with two small slants for eyes, a rendering that reads as a reclamation of Asian stereotypes by the director Ann Marie Fleming, who is also of Chinese descent.
At first, Rosies simplicity is jarring.
But as the character learns more about her personal and poetic origins, her minimalist frame absorbs the weight of a rich, complex history.
That transformation is the great pleasure of watching this small film.
With an opening that has Poirot tripping up an escaping villain in a positively James Bond-esque manner, Mr. Branagh immediately established the detective as a far more dashing man of action than the novels small hero muffled up to the ears of whom nothing was visible but a pink-tipped nose and the two points of an upward curled mustache.
(This Poirot has possibly to the horror of devotees a lost love, Katherine, whom he laments with some regularity throughout the movie.)
He is also far more moodily serious than the character portrayed by Albert Finney in the 1974 movie, or David Suchets twinkling, wise incarnation in the long-running TV series Agatha Christies Poirot.
Mr. Branagh and Mr. Green have changed other aspects of the story and characters as well.
There is now a chase scene (who knew Poirot could run?
), a cinematically dramatic avalanche, and a somewhat altered ending, with the detectives moral dilemma as the focus of the traditional denouement.
Characters from the book have changed nationality and identity.
The Swedish missionary, Greta (played in 1974 by Bergman, who won a best supporting actress Oscar for the role), has become the Spanish Pilar Estravados (Ms. Cruz).
The stuffy, middle-aged British Colonel Arbuthnot is now the young and dashing Dr. Arbuthnot (Leslie Odom Jr. of Hamilton fame).
Count Andrenyi has become a famous ballet dancer (the real-life star dancer Sergei Polunin).
And the Italian chauffeur Foscarelli is now Cuban (Manuel Garcia-Rulfo, the Mexican actor who was a star of The Magnificent Seven last year).
Photo Did 20th Century Fox and Mr. Branagh have global markets in mind when making these casting decisions?
Chris Aronson, president of domestic distribution at the studio, said in a telephone interview that there was no special intention to broaden appeal, and that the cast just came together like that.
Its a spectacular lineup, with luxury casting in even minor roles: Olivia Colman (The Night Manager, Broadchurch) as Princess Dragomiroffs maid, Derek Jacobi as the victims valet and Willem Dafoe as the objectionably alt-right Mr. Hardman (another character alteration that seems designed to speak to a contemporary audience).
I cant imagine anyone would say no to Ken Branagh, Ms. Colman said when asked why she had taken a relatively minor role.
I felt like a competition winner.
She added that the atmosphere during shooting was so jolly; it felt very much like a big theater company.
Besides, she said, her role had been easy: I just had to be in awe of Judi Dench.
Mr. Branagh said he was disposed toward diversity in casting, and that although it might have been unusual for a black man to be traveling on the Orient Express in the 1930s, there were historical examples of the kind of character that Mr. Odom plays.
We decided to find that evidence and build a character in a way that would expose that a bit, he said.
I think with Christie, like Shakespeare, there is a chance to change these ideas.
In a telephone interview, Mr. Odom said that he had done a fair amount of research on his character, whose back story he has been adopted by Scottish parents, served in World War I and trained as a doctor was developed by Mr. Green.
I think the change to my character was an effort to be more inclusive and diverse, and I think the themes of the movie support the choices to have me and Penlope and Manuel in there, Mr. Odom said.
Because its how connected we are as human beings, how one horrific event affects many lives.
Photo An Agatha Christie murder mystery is perhaps not the most obvious project for Mr. Branagh, an eminent Shakespearean actor and director who recently assembled a theater company for a yearlong West End season and has also directed blockbuster movies like the first Thor and Cinderella.
But Mr. Branagh clearly has a fondness for detective fiction: He played the Swedish cop Kurt Wallander in a television series, Wallander, and starred as a private investigator in Dead Again, which he also directed.
My mother was an avid reader of detective fiction, and she brought Murder on the Orient Express home when I was in my teens, Mr. Branagh said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story He was captivated by the dazzle of so many characters, by Christies theatrical, confident storytelling, and by Poirot, who proved an irresistible attraction when Ridley Scott, a producer of the film, brought the project to him.
The raw material was vast, and the chance to dig deep was a tremendous attraction, trying to work out what Agatha Christie thought about him, Mr. Branagh said.
She admired his compassion and kindness, his ability to understand human frailty, and I made that the center of this Poirot.
The Christie family, he said, had also endorsed his portrayal of a more troubled, existentially fraught character.
James Pritchard, the writers great-grandson and head of Agatha Christie Limited, which manages the media and literary rights to her work, said that he loved what Mr. Branagh and Mr. Green had done with Poirot.
Categorically, he is more active, I will grant you that, he said.
But I think the character elements are right; he can be annoying, sometimes arrogant, but he is also human and warm and kind.
I think to present him as a caricature is wrong.
British reviewers were mostly unimpressed by Mr. Branaghs more serious approach.
Despite its credentials and its impeccable styling this Orient Express never gets up a head of steam, Robbie Collin wrote in The Telegraph, adding, a shade more playfulness would have gone a long way.
Allan Hunter of The Express offered a dissenting view: Branagh succeeds in delivering a stylish slice of vintage entertainment.
Photo Where the critics concurred was on the subject of this Poirots mustache, the one aspect of Mr. Finneys detective that Christie felt to be inadequate.
(Her last public appearance, in her 80s, was at the 1974 movie premiere.)
She could surely have no complaints this time around.
So resplendently whiskered that even his mustaches have mustaches, Mr. Collin wrote.
As if two terrified gray squirrels had been surgically attached to his face, said Kevin Maher in the London Times.
The epic handlebar mustache looks like a showstopper from pastry week on Bake Off, Mr. Hunter wrote.
Mr. Branagh noted that it had taken nine months to come up with the final design for the mustache.
(According to Variety, the crew members called it the badger.)
It reflected, he said, a military quality he wanted to project.
The hair, the handmade shoes and period fabric, his very neat and compact way of dressing, it made me physically lean forward, he said.
Our Poirot doesnt want to waste time.
Once moving and on the case there is a certain urgency, a bloodhound quality.
The novel ends with Poirot solving the case and retiring.
Here he is more of a participant, and at times a frightened participant.
Lumets version was more of a romp, Mr. Branagh said, adding, I wanted it to be about the poison of deep grief.
On this weeks podcast, the actress Julia Stiles reads A Family Fairytale Twice Told, about a woman who follows in her parents footsteps of falling for a roommate.
Photo Liz Moore, the author, shared her story of the under-market Park Slope apartment that led to a Craigslist roommate and a crush in a 2012 Modern Love essay.
Follow her on Twitter.
Ms. Stiles stars in the television series Riviera.
You can also find her on Twitter and Instagram.
Photo The star of Lost Landscapes of New York is the city itself or rather the city of dreams and memories.
Created by the archivist Rick Prelinger, this wondrous compilation turns old film fragments into a portal onto the past that seems further away with each new Starbucks.
(Presented by the Museum of the Moving Image, it plays at the Skirball Center on Nov.
12.)
In one flickering instant you see the New York of the original Penn Station (gone in 1964), in another you ride the Third Avenue Elevated, a railway that once ran the length of Manhattan like a zipper.
Hovering over streets and sidewalks, it delivered multitudes while casting dappled shadows made for beauty shots and sometimes poetry.
(The El / careening thru its thirdstory world / with its thirdstory people / in their thirdstory doors / looking as if they had never heard / of the ground, the poet Lawrence Ferlinghetti wrote in Pictures of the Gone World a title that could have worked for this movie.)
The Third Avenue El was demolished in sections, finally disappearing entirely from Manhattan in 1955.
Its a revelation to hop a virtual ride on it here, if only briefly.
Like much of the rest of Lost Landscapes, the images of the El reveal a New York that is at once familiar and strangely, disorientingly different.
One minute youre a resident, confidently matching the films streets to those mapped in your head; the next minute youre as bewildered as a tourist.
Because while some of the landmarks the Flatiron Building, the Brooklyn Bridge keep you grounded, reaffirming your idea of New York, there are so many other mysterious ghostly cities to roam through and discover.
Photo Lost Landscapes has been drawn from a variety of sources, including old home movies and process plates, material used as backgrounds in commercial films.
Like an archaeologist, Mr. Prelinger has uncovered these different New Yorks layer upon layer and put them together for a singular, complex film experience.
Its an ideal project for this collector extraordinaire, who is one of the great, undersung historians of 20th century cinema.
Yet while you may not know Mr. Prelingers name, you may have stumbled across his archival work through his collection of what he calls ephemeral films, a miscellany of industrial, educational and other works that include everything from old Chevrolet ads to campy educational shorts about careless, naughty teens.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Prelinger has long made his vast collection easily available to the public, including online through the invaluable Internet Archive.
With Lost Landscapes hes extended this political, communitarian ethos by soliciting audience participation during screenings.
With a few startling exceptions, much of Lost Landscapes of New York is silent; theres no chatter, noise or nudging music.
Instead, as a title card announces, You are the soundtrack.
Its up to viewers to provide the sounds the laughs, the drama and the commentary whether theyre playing historian or tour guide or going deep on the power relations embedded in every monument, building, street and sidewalk.
Photo The Post may look like a period piece, as it dramatizes how the 1971 publication of the leaked Pentagon Papers exposed government efforts to mislead the public about the Vietnam War.
But the first trailer for Steven Spielbergs film indicates that this is a story as relevant as todays headlines.
If we dont hold them accountable, who will?
the Washington Post editor Ben Bradlee (Tom Hanks) asks his publisher, Katharine Graham (Meryl Streep), to which she replies, We cant hold them accountable if we dont have a paper.
(As the trailer indicates, The New York Times ran the first reports on the papers and published some of the documents, but was barred from following up by a court order.
The Washington Post then stepped in.)
On a somewhat less serious note, if ever there were an Academy Awards all-star team, it would be the cast and crew of The Post.
Ms. Streep holds the Oscars record for the most acting nominations (20, with three wins), while Mr. Hanks has been nominated five times and won twice.
Mr. Spielberg has earned 16 nominations as a director and a producer (winning three times), and the composer John Williams is the most-nominated person alive, with 50.
All could add to their totals with The Post.
Many members of the films teeming ensemble can be glimpsed in the teaser, including Bruce Greenwood as Robert McNamara, who as secretary of defense in 1967 created the task force that compiled the Pentagon Papers, and Bob Odenkirk as Ben Bagdikian, a journalist who urged the newspaper to publish the documents.
The Post arrives in theaters on Dec. 22.
Photo LOS ANGELES A potential buyer walked away from the Weinstein Company on Tuesday, nudging the struggling studio closer to the brink.
After disagreeing on price, Colony Capital, the private equity firm run by Thomas J. Barrack Jr., ended talks with the boutique studio to buy some or all of its assets, according to two people briefed on the negotiations, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the process was private.
The Weinstein Company entered into exclusive talks with Colony on Oct. 16 as it rushed to contain the fallout from allegations of sexual harassment and assault against its co-founder Harvey Weinstein.
We believe the company has substantial value and growth potential, Mr. Barrack said in a statement at the time.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But Colony found more disorder than it had expected and less value once it started closely examining the studio.
By Oct. 26, a preliminary agreement for Colony to give the Weinstein Company an immediate cash infusion had fallen apart, even as Colony continued to evaluate the possible purchase of some or all of the studio.
Photo In recent years, the movie musical has struggled for its complete resurrection as a genre, in efforts ranging from the Hollywood high-flown (Into the Woods) to the modest and quirky (Jeffrey St. Juless little-seen Bang Bang Baby, from 2014).
And now, somewhere between the two, lies Hello Again, Tom Gustafsons florid adaptation of Michael John LaChiusas 1993 Off Broadway show (itself based on Arthur Schnitzlers La Ronde).
What most distinguishes Hello Again from the others is its cast of New York theater powerhouses, including Martha Plimpton, Audra McDonald and Cheyenne Jackson.
Hello Again largely eschews dialogue as it leaps among historical eras and song sequences, depicting a series of fraught romantic encounters across decades.
(Few film musicals have so teemed with non-graphic scenes of sexual acts.)
Video It begins with a woman (Ms. Plimpton) who enters a peep-show-like chamber, seeking counsel about love from a mysterious masked man before her.
And then its off to a coupling between a prostitute and a soldier in 1901; a tryst between a rich man (T. R. Knight) and a younger one on the Titanic; a 1920s affair in a movie theater involving an adulteress (Rumer Willis); a Greenwich Village disco hookup in the 1970s; and so on.
The best comes near the end, when Ms. McDonald, as a singer in 2002 reaching for a comeback in a cheesy music video, puts Auto-Tune to shame.
A later segment takes place in 1989, in which Ms. Plimpton plays a Washington senator keeping her lover (Ms. McDonald) a secret.
Their scenes together are worth the price of admission.
The movie benefits from Austin Schmidts neon-infused cinematography and Annie Simeones lush production design.
But Mr. LaChiusas songs largely fail to resonate here.
Dramatic traction suffers, probably as a result of the many, and diffuse, vignettes.
And yet this is a commendably audacious effort by Mr. Gustafson (Were the World Mine).
The movie musical needs more ambitious creators like him.
Hello Again Director Tom Gustafson Writer Cory Krueckeberg Stars Martha Plimpton, Sam Underwood, Nolan Gerard Funk, Jenna Ushkowitz, Al Calderon Running Time 1h 45m Genres Drama, Music, Musical, Romance Movie data powered by IMDb.com Last updated: Nov 13, 2017
One of his biggest achievements was his work on The Avengers, which he wrote from 2004 to 2012.
He added Spider-Man, Wolverine and Luke Cage to the team and helped make it one of Marvels most significant franchises.
Mr. Bendis was also the writer behind the story of Iceman, from the X-Men, revealing that he is gay, and the introduction of Riri Williams, a black 15-year-old genius who donned the armor of Iron Man, and has become the superhero Ironheart.
On social media, comic book fans were not shy about their opinions on Mr. Bendiss departure.
One tweeted, Finally, Marvel is free of his grasp ugh, a little too late, but Ill take it.
Others compared his departure to DC to that of Jack Kirby, who cocreated the X-Men, Thor and other heroes in the 1960s and left for DC in the 1970s when his relationship with Marvel soured.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Theres no reason to believe that Bendis was unhappy at Marvel, as hes persistently one of the companys biggest cheerleaders on his Twitter and Tumblr accounts, wrote Abraham Reisman, an editor who covers comics for Vulture.
It is unclear who will take over the Marvel series that Mr. Bendis will leave behind at Marvel.
They include Spider-Man, Jessica Jones, Defenders and Invincible Iron Man.
Marvel released a statement that read: Brian is a great partner and has contributed incredible stories and characters to the Marvel Universe over the years.
We appreciate his creativity and professionalism, and we wish him the best on his future projects.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story During a telephone interview from his home in Portland, Ore., Mr. Bendis made it clear that there is no animosity between him and Marvel.
Theyre my friends.
Im madly in love with them for their coolness, he said.
The move came, in part, from surveying what he had accomplished there and struggling with thoughts of, Am I repeating myself?
he said.
He grew up in Cleveland, the birthplace of the creators of Superman, and Mr. Bendiss love for DC characters has been clear in his postings on social media.
It was a deliberate strategy: I was trying to break down that Marvel vs. DC craziness that some fans have, he said.
When DC reached out about the possibility of his working for them, this time the timing was right.
I thought, lets see whats behind Curtain No.
2.
The excitement about working on DC characters has outweighed any feelings of trepidation.
I know it was the right choice to make.
No matter how scared I am, I know it was a good scared.
Photo Matt Damons star may have shrunk a bit after the failure of his recent dark comedy Suburbicon, but he could expand his box-office footprint again by getting small in Downsizing.
He plays a telemarketer who undergoes a procedure that reduces him to five inches tall but gives him a new perspective on whats important in life.
Directed by Alexander Payne, who wrote the script with his longtime collaborator Jim Taylor, the film feels less down-to-earth than their previous films, like Sideways and Election.
Considering theyve earned 10 Oscar nominations between them, Mr. Payne and Mr. Taylor can never be counted out as awards contenders.
The comedys cast includes the Saturday Night Live veterans Kristen Wiig (as Mr. Damons reluctant wife) and Jason Sudeikis (as a gung ho advocate of miniaturization), and the new trailer offers glimpses of Laura Dern, Neil Patrick Harris, Niecy Nash and Christoph Waltz.
Hong Chau, whose credits include Big Little Lies, has a key role as well.
Set to Talking Heads Once in a Lifetime, the teaser reflects the confusion and regret initially felt by Mr. Damons character with the lyrics: And you may say to yourself, My God, what have I done?
Paramount hopes audiences wont feel the same way when Downsizing hits theaters on Dec. 22.
Photo Harvey Weinstein, the Hollywood producer accused of sexual harassment and assault by several women, has been banned for life from the Television Academy because of widespread examples of this horrific behavior.
The organization, which awards the Primetime Emmys, voted Monday to oust Mr. Weinstein, Variety reported.
The Academy supports those speaking out against harassment in all forms and stands behind those who have been affected by this issue, the organization said in a statement to Variety.
The unfolding and widespread examples of this horrific behavior are deeply disturbing to the Academys leadership.
Investigations by The New York Times and The New Yorker have revealed accusations of sexual harassment, assault and rape from women going back decades.
Mr. Weinstein said his behavior has caused a lot of pain.
A representative for Mr. Weinstein has said he denies allegations of nonconsensual sex.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The New Yorker reported Monday that Mr. Weinstein had hired private investigators to collect information on his accusers and on journalists who were reporting about their allegations.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
His ouster from the Television Academy is the latest in a series of professional condemnations since widespread accusations about his treatment of women were published last month.
Since the accusations surfaced, he has been kicked out of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences and fired from the Weinstein Company, which he co-founded.
This may sound like a joyless prospect.
But its amazing how quickly the traffic of the stage passes when youre in the hands of expert craftsmen.
Neither Mr. Grahams Labour of Love (at the Nol Coward Theater in the West End) nor Mr. Bartletts Albion (at the Almeida in Islington) is likely to be the work for which either dramatist will be best remembered.
But seen at a moment in which the center of a classically self-contained world no longer seems to be holding, these fraught works exude a paradoxical reassurance.
There is warming solace, after all, in people gathering to hear their collective identity crisis discussed in such well-spoken terms.
(This is true even for uneasy Americans like me, whose own viciously conflicted nation has been keeping them awake at nights.)
Photo Theatergoers here will recognize such plays as part of a long tradition of literary introspection.
It is one that stretches back to at least the days of that other Queen Elizabeth, when Shakespeares characters tear out their hair over their imperiled countrys divisions, and has been sustained by 20th- and 21st-century writers including John Osborne, David Hare and Caryl Churchill.
Whats more, though their subjects may be absolutely of the moment, Labour of Love, an anxious comedy, and Albion, a state-of-the-nation drama, are both old-fashioned in form.
This is not necessarily to be expected of either of their creators.
Mr. Bartlett is the author of the future Shakespearean history play King Charles III; Mr. Graham wrote the interactive Privacy, about reality-fracturing practices in the age of surveillance.
Despite a few postmodern flourishes and some teasing structural game playing, their latest offerings are unlikely to disconcert habitual watchers of Masterpiece television.
Directed by Jeremy Herrin (Wolf Hall, People, Places & Things), Labour of Love is a detailed examination of the history of the British Labour Party.
But wait.
It is also a spirited battle-of-the-sexes comedy in the vein of Much Ado About Nothing and the films that pitted Katharine Hepburn against Spencer Tracy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In this case, though, the salt-of-the-earth Tracy character is a woman, Jean Whittaker, a longtime stalwart of the local party in a working-class mining town.
The patrician Hepburn type is a rising politician, with a public school accent and impeccably tailored suits.
Thats David Lyons (a top-form Martin Freeman, of Sherlock fame).
He has been delivered, more or less by central party fiat, into a safe seat in the constituency where Jean (the wonderful Tamsin Greig) has worked as the office manager for the outgoing member of Parliament (who happens to be her husband).
She has no intention of sticking around.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
But of course she does, and leftist Old Labour (think Tony Benn) butts heads with centrist New Labour (think Tony Blair), amid plenty of sparks and quips over 27 years.
I should note that the play begins on an election night in 2017, when it seems as if David is going to lose, and works backward to the day he arrived to first assume his Parliamentary position in 1994.
Thats the first act, anyway.
The second act reverts to conventional chronology, beginning in 1994 and picking up where each scene in the previous act ended.
The structure embodies the plays central and cleverly executed motif of mirror images.
Im making the plot sound more complicated than it feels.
Interspersed with time-capsule video montages that show the changing faces of British government, the production moves with the barbed breeziness of an Alan Ayckbourn comedy.
Photo Yes, Labour policies, strategies, economics and even iconography are discussed at length.
But as he demonstrated in his gripping parliamentary procedural docudrama, This House, Mr. Graham has a gift for finding the human crackle in ostensibly dry political business.
It is a battle to which Mr. Freeman and Ms. Greig lend a deliciously combustible chemistry.
And though the divided Britain of 2017 inspires lamentations about a party and a nation at war within itself, Labour dares to end on a note of guarded but cheering optimism.
The same can hardly be said of Albion, which is directed by Rupert Goold and stars a splendid Victoria Hamilton (of Netflixs The Crown).
The titular setting is the once magnificent garden of an English estate, long since fallen into disuse and decay.
Albion once belonged to the uncle of Audrey Walters (Ms. Hamilton), the self-made head of a home furnishings empire and a bereaved mother whose soldier son was killed in Iraq.
She is determined to restore it to its former glory.
She is also, of course, hoping to resurrect an England of long ago, of material solidity and a clear-cut social structure.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story It isnt a spoiler to say that this project is inevitably doomed.
An end-of-days tone of Chekhovian melancholy pervades the show from its opening moments.
And Mr. Bartlett borrows unapologetically from both Chekhovs The Cherry Orchard and The Seagull for his portrayal of the characters here.
They include Audreys benignly parasitic husband (an excellent Nicholas Rowe); her best friend, a swaggering and emotionally destructive novelist (Helen Schlesinger); and Audreys dangerously impressionable daughter (Charlotte Hope), who has artistic leanings of her own.
The fact that there is no place in contemporary Britain for the Albion of yore is explored in clashes among classes and generations.
These are enacted in dialogue that, by Mr. Bartletts standards, often feels surprisingly banal, as if recycled from a centurys worth of country house dramas.
But Mr. Goolds production, featuring a deceptively simple design by Miriam Buether, has been most engagingly staged.
(The ways in which the garden comes to life is a marvel.)
And the acting, especially from Ms. Hamilton, is passionate and persuasive.
For all its depiction of a world spinning off its axis, Albion affords the pleasures of a vintage, soul-searching British novel.
In asking the question of who will inherit what remains of the British Empire, it brings to mind one literary classic in particular.
And when I turned on the television the next night, there on the screen was a new adaptation of that very work.
I mean E. M. Forsters 1910 masterpiece, Howards End.
Watching this latest incarnation of one of my favorite books, I found it exasperating, poignant and comforting that more than a hundred years ago, Forster was posing the same questions about his countrys identity and purpose that haunted the plays I had just seen.
That is garbage, of course weve already heard him call her a sexist slur that cant be repeated here and anyway Stu is outraged at Elizas initiative.
As the play opens, she has just tricked him by putting Webers name on a design of her own, then asking Stu to explain what makes it so good.
After he fell for it, she said it was hers.
Photo This is what were up against, Stu grouses, retelling the tale.
Perhaps best known now as the deposed creator of Smash, Ms. Rebeck has long made her way through the mans world of both theater and television.
I remember hearing a male theater director, years ago, disparage her in glaringly misogynistic language a tipoff that his judgment reflected him more than her.
So she understands this terrain from the inside.
As sitcomish as it sometimes feels, What Were Up Against has a complex view of its characters and their dynamics.
Janice (Marg Helgenberger) has been at the firm for years, and before Elizas arrival she was its only woman architect.
(The unseen support staff is, she notes, all female.)
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Janice recognizes the structural flaws in the office culture, but like a lot of people who find themselves the sole representative of a demographic group, she opts not to dwell on them.
She gets along by not threatening the men keeping her expectations low, her comments flattering and her work mediocre.
Also, she dresses like a librarian.
(The costumes, which dont always nail the era, are by Tilly Grimes.)
Eliza hopes that Janice will be an ally.
Janice, halfheartedly gaslighting her, hopes that Eliza will tone it down.
She doesnt, and thats the fun of Ms. Rebecks revenge fantasy, which lets no one off the hook for their bad behavior.
The cast is an impressive assemblage of talent, and Ms. Rodriguez and Ms. Helgenberger both do fine.
Oddly, though, the flashiest roles belong to men: the showboating worm Weber and, especially, the toxic Stu hardly the only villain here, but the one with the most power, and he relishes abusing it.
Playing Stu is a tricky challenge that Mr. Young expertly meets, giving a comic performance with just enough bite that we cant dismiss Stu as a buffoon.
His body language the way he cringes in not-so-mock fear when he talks about Eliza is like a cry straight from his psyche.
But Ben (Jim Parrack), a project leader at the firm, is more insidiously harmful.
A casual sexist, hes also a pragmatist, and good work is his principal concern.
He knows Eliza could help with that, but hes not the kind of guy to make waves.
Instead he goes along.
In the productions bi-level set, by Narelle Sissons, we get a cross-section view of the office.
With lumber and metal seams exposed at the edges, we see how this structure was built.
Its a metaphor for what Ms. Rebecks play does: rips away the smooth surfaces and lays bare the skeleton, where its plain that the rot is in the bones.
And, oh yes, be willing to have your heart broken, at least a little.
Because The Bands Visit, which stars a magnificent Katrina Lenk and Tony Shalhoub as would-be lovers in a not-quite paradise, is like life in that way, too.
There were worries that this finely detailed show, based on Eran Kolirins screenplay for the 2007 film of the same title, might not survive the transfer to Broadway.
First staged to sold-out houses late last year at the Atlantic Theater Company, it exuded a shimmering transparency that might well have evaporated in less intimate quarters.
Video Yet The Bands Visit which follows the modest adventures of a touring Egyptian band stranded in an Israeli village significant only for its insignificance more than holds its own on a larger stage.
Its impeccably coordinated creative team has magnified and polished its assets to a high sheen that never feels synthetic.
This show was always close to perfect musically.
(Mr. Yazbeks quietly simmering score, which inflects Broadway balladry and character songs with a haunting Middle Eastern accent, felt as essential as oxygen.)
But it felt a shade less persuasive in its connective spoken scenes.
That is, to say the least, no longer a problem.
Though the lives it depicts are governed by a caution born of chronic disappointment, Mr. Cromers production now moves wire to wire with a thoroughbreds confidence.
Such assurance is all the more impressive when you consider that The Bands Visit is built on delicately balanced contradictions.
It finds ecstasy in ennui; eroticism among people who rarely make physical contact; and a sense of profound eventfulness in a plot in which, all told, very little happens.
The story is sprung when the members of the Alexandria Ceremonial Band, led by their straight-backed conductor, Tewfiq (Mr. Shalhoub), board a bus in 1996 for an engagement at the Arab Cultural Center in the city of Petah Tikva.
Thanks to some understandable confusion at the ticket counter, they wind up instead in the flyblown backwater of Bet Hatikva.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
They register as unmistakably alien figures there, looking like refugees from Sgt.
Peppers Lonely Hearts Club Band in their powder-blue uniforms.
(Sarah Laux did the costumes.)
And theres not a bus out of this godforsaken hole until the next morning.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Just how uninteresting is Bet Hatikva?
Its residents are happy to tell you, in some of the wittiest songs ever written about being bored.
The B that begins its name might as well stand for basically bleak and beige and blah blah blah.
Leading this civic inventory is a cafe proprietor named Dina (Ms. Lenk, in a star-making performance), a wry beauty who clearly doesnt belong here and just as clearly will never leave.
Like her fellow citizens, she sees the defining condition of her life as eternal waiting, a state in which you keep looking off out into the distance/ Even though you know the view is never gonna change.
Photo Scott Pasks revolving set, so fitting for a world in which life seems to spin in an endless circle, captures the sameness of the view.
But Tyler Micoleaus lighting, and the whispers of projections by Maya Ciarrocchi, evoke the subliminal changes of perspective stirred by the arrival of strangers.
Connections among the Egyptian and the Israeli characters are inevitably incomplete.
To begin with, they dont share a language and must communicate in broken English.
And as the stranded musicians interact with their hosts, their shared story becomes a tally of sweet nothings, of regretful might-have-beens.
That means that the cultural collisions and consummations that you and they might anticipate dont occur.
Even the frictions that emerge from uninvited Arabs on Israeli soil flicker and die like damp matches.
The show is carefully veined with images of incompleteness: a forever unlit cigarette in the mouth of a violinist (George Abud); a clarinet concerto that has never been completed by its composer (Alok Tewari); a public telephone that never rings, guarded by a local (Adam Kantor) waiting for a call from his girlfriend; and a pickup line thats dangled like an unbaited hook by the bands aspiring Lothario (Ariel Stachel, whose smooth jazz vocals dazzle in the style of his characters idol, Chet Baker).
All the cast members who also include a deeply affecting John Cariani, Kristen Sieh, Etai Benson and Andrew Polk forge precisely individualized characters, lonely people who have all known loss, with everything and nothing in common.
A marvelous Mr. Shalhoub (Monk) has only grown in the role of a man who carries his dignity and private grief with the stiffness of someone transporting perilously fragile cargo.
As for Ms. Lenk, seen on Broadway last season in Paula Vogels Indecent, she is the ideal avatar of this shows paradoxical spirit, at once coolly evasive and warmly expansive, like the jasmine wind that Dina describes in the breakout ballad Omar Sharif.
Listening to Tewfiq sing in Arabic, she wonders, Is he singing about wishing?
She goes on: I dont know what I feel, and I dont know what I know/All I know is I feel something different.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Yazbeks melody matches the exquisitely uncertain certainty of the lyrics.
That something different is the heart-clutching sensation that throbs throughout this miraculous show, as precise as it is elusive, and all the more poignant for being both.
Photo This years Broadway production of 1984 will be ineligible for Tony Awards because the production refused to allow the journalist Jose Antonio Vargas, who is a member of the nominating committee, to see the play.
The plays lead producer, Scott Rudin, did not explain why Mr. Vargas was denied access, and neither Mr. Rudin nor Mr. Vargas immediately offered any comment.
Another lead producer, Sonia Friedman, said, I dont have a comment on the matter other than I am disappointed with the outcome.
The Tony Awards administration committee made the unusual decision to disqualify 1984 during a meeting on Thursday.
The awards rules require that producers invite all members of the Tony nominating committee there are currently 49 to a performance.
Photo It was determined that not all elements of the required eligibility were fulfilled, the awards administrators said in a statement Friday.
Both the production and the committee have discussed the matter in private.
While all parties involved do not necessarily agree on the outcome, all parties agree that the issue was handled properly.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story A Tonys spokeswoman would not confirm that Mr. Vargas was denied access to the play, but several theater industry leaders confirmed that he was the excluded nominator.
Last season, his first as a Tony nominator, he recused himself from voting.
Ludlams Tamberlaine is already the president of Earth when the play begins.
But his insatiable appetite for power leads him to invade all the other planets in the solar system, starting with Mars, which is ruled by Bajazeth (Lenys Sam) and his queen, Zabina (Mr. Quinton, who also portrays Zabinas incestuous princely brother, Cosroe).
Accompanied by his bodacious first lady, Alice (Brian Belovitch), Tamberlaine rapes, pillages, castrates, decapitates and turns the monarchs of the universe he lets live into personal sex slaves.
(Warning to the squeamish: Polymorphous perversity aint pretty in the Ludlam cosmos.)
Alas, it is never enough.
And Tamberlaine, after taking time to see a degenerate Charles Ludlam play, is left to lament the lack of fresh worlds to conquer before arriving at a very untidy demise.
Extracting that plotline for you wasnt easy.
(Youre welcome.)
To discern it, a theatergoer must peer through a thick and tangled forest of cross-cultural references, stratospheric over-emoting and jokes (and X-rated sex) raunchy enough to bring a blush to the jaded cheeks of todays most lascivious powermongers.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Conquest, which runs a little over an hour and a half, has nothing like the formal symmetry or coherence that Ludlam would bring to his later works, like Camille and The Mystery of Irma Vep.
But it does reflect, almost blindingly, the central Ludlam tenet of creative line blurring between classical and pop, beautiful and ugly, sacred and profane, male and female, professional and amateur.
It has also been given an exceptionally lavish production or trash-lavish anyway with planets that dangle like chandeliers over Robert Savinas sprawling set and improbable costumes by Ramona Ponce that would be the envy of Lady Gaga.
Even if you find your eyes glazing (or your gag reflex overworking) from the too-muchness of it all, the cast seems to be having a high old time.
And why should it not?
These performers get to simulate the goriest of deaths, assume every position in the Kama Sutra and then some, and crib madly from sources like The Wizard of Oz, classic melodrama, Jacobean revenge tragedy, doo-wop music and vintage burlesque.
The dialogue includes such immortal phrases as A poisoned wedding cake, heavy with irony and Let him enter my chamber, this boy from Jupiter.
Mr. Quinton projects disciplined dementia in both his roles, intoning the interjection Sufferin Sappho with the sibilance of Sylvester the Cat and majestically declaiming the mock-Shakespearean couplet, I say to Jove, thy will be done./No more nookie til Tamberlaine is slain and overcome.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Theres plenty of real Shakespeare, too, as Mr. Neales winningly wild-eyed Tamberlaine borrows freely from the characters of Macbeth, Richard III, Titus Andronicus and, above all, one wacky Prince of Denmark.
The final scene of Conquest takes the wholesale carnage of Act V of Hamlet and multiplies it to the nth degree.
Death isnt dignified in Conquest, but it isnt terminal either.
On the contrary, it keeps happening over and over again, until youre reluctant to believe anyone, no matter how eviscerated, is down for the count.
The same would appear to be true of Ludlams dated but strangely prophetic early theater work.
Love em or hate em, his colliding queens fit right into todays climate of farcical tragedy, where its often hard to tell a scream from a laugh.
Plays, however, were Ms. Thurmans first taste of acting.
As a sophomore at her Massachusetts boarding school, she played the female lead in The Crucible.
More than 30 years later, there was swagger in her throaty voice when she said, It was an achievement for a sophomore to get the role that usually a senior gets.
Some agents shed met while modeling the summer before came to see the play.
Their interest helped persuade her parents, Robert Thurman, a professor of Buddhist Studies at Columbia University, and Nena von Schlebrgge, a former fashion model who now helps to run Menla, a retreat in the Catskill Mountains, to let her transfer to Manhattans Professional Childrens School.
By 17, she had booked her first four film roles, including a clamshell-born Venus in The Adventures of Baron Munchausen and the convent girl Ccile in Dangerous Liaisons.
It wasnt very difficult to cast her, said Stephen Frears, the director of Dangerous Liaisons, speaking by telephone.
She was so striking, so beautiful and so fresh.
She was also, as Mr. Frears said, very formidable.
Thats a hallmark of her career and also maybe a clue to why that career has been so eclectic.
Ms. Thurman isnt a delicate actress or a melting one or the kind who comes right to the front of a movie screen and invites you in.
Theres a remove in a lot of her best work (Henry & June, Kill Bill), a sense that she has emotions and ideas that are hers alone.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story She has refused to be typecast as a siren or a femme fatale and has struggled to find roles that attract her.
It isnt that she wont play wives and girlfriends she will, she has.
But these are women as likely to steal a scene as to yield to it.
Photo Photo Quentin Tarantino, who directed her as a gangsters wife in Pulp Fiction and wrote the Kill Bill movies for her, compared Ms. Thurman to golden-age luminaries like Greta Garbo and Bette Davis.
Theres this years blonde and theres last years blonde.
Interchangeable.
But to me, Uma has a quality that could rank with a Marlene Dietrich, he said in a phone interview.
He also called her, with affection, a big, tall willow.
Will Ms. Thurmans old-Hollywood style play on Broadway?
Her 1999 outing, as the film star Jennifer in Martin Crimps version of Molires The Misanthrope, didnt dazzle critics.
She brings to mind a beautiful, sheltered girl at her first grown-up dance, putting on airs and hoping against hope shell get away with it, Ben Brantley wrote in The New York Times.
Did the tone of the responses surprise her?
I dont expect anyone to pat me on the back, she said.
That script, a series of rhymed couplets barnacled with topical quips, was so impenetrably difficult, she said.
It was madness.
Photo Since then, the closest Ms. Thurman has come to a stage role was a guest-star arc on the first season of the NBC show Smash, in which she played Rebecca, a movie star trying to conquer Broadway, felled at an out-of-town tryout by a tainted smoothie.
Nothing so dramatic has affected The Parisian Woman, but Ms. Thurman and Mr. Willimon have both found themselves in the news for reasons unrelated to the play.
As rehearsals began, accusations against Mr. Weinstein broke wide.
As to whether she had personally been subject to abuse, Ms. Thurman gave the clipped response, Ill discuss it when I want to discuss it.
(In an Access Hollywood interview, which has since gone viral, she offered a similar answer, though in more obviously indignant tones.)
In late October, the allegations against Mr. Spacey also surfaced and production on House of Cards, was halted.
(Mr. Willimon left the series in 2016.)
Though The Parisian Woman traffics in questions of sex and power, any discussion of these real-world events never made its way into the rehearsal room, Ms. MacKinnon said firmly.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Inside that room, a few days before the actors were to move into the theater for technical rehearsals, Ms. Thurman clacked onto the temporary set in teal heels, prop phone in her hand, gemstone glint in her eye.
With mischief and languor, she subdued her lover (Marton Csokas) and teased her husband (Josh Lucas).
(Mischief extended to her downtime, too.
When this reporter slunk into the room, Ms. Thurman called brightly, Write some fake news for us today!)
The blocking for the scene wasnt set yet; the pacing juddered.
But when Ms. Thurman lobbed a line like, I cant control who falls in love with me, it landed.
Ms. MacKinnon occasionally stopped the action to offer a suggestion.
Sometimes the suggestions were Ms. Thurmans.
Maybe she could speak an early line more lightly.
Maybe she should cross the stage later.
She asked Ms. MacKinnon if she could sit during an argument with Mr. Csokass character, the better to soothe him.
Its physical de-escalation on an oppositional line, Ms. Thurman explained with typical hyperarticulacy.
Rehearsing a play has required some adjustments in the ways she attacks a role.
Her method is still what Mr. Tarantino described as motivated by emotional connection to a character and from the inside out, he said.
Shes not surface, right?
At this point, you may recall the events that took place at Virginia Tech in 2007.
Ms. Cho has said that she wrote Office Hour to explore her response to the massacre there, in which a 23-year-old student named Seung-Hui Cho murdered 32 people before killing himself.
Creative-writing teachers who had read his work, including a violent play called Richard McBeef, alerted the school authorities to no avail.
So your tension level will already be high when the scene shifts to the English department office in which Denniss new teacher, Gina, meets with her students.
It climbs when Dennis enters, his black clothing and bleaker silence effectively rendering him a negative of a person.
And it climbs higher yet when you notice the way he clutches his backpack closely at all times.
Is he, as one of the other teachers suggested, a shooter?
Ten minutes in, with only that question on the table, the play has already painted itself into a corner.
What can it do for its 75 remaining minutes except torture us with dread?
Photo Ms. Cho tries to finesse this structural problem by introducing a meta-theatrical game of three-card monte.
In a feint reminiscent of the movie Sliding Doors, the play Constellations and even the musical If/Then, she deals out various scenarios of what might happen next and lets you guess which, if any, are real.
In some iterations, Gina gets nowhere in her attempt to pierce Denniss dark armor.
In others, through a combination of empathy and tough love, she begins to reach him.
Its hard to pay attention either way, because so many of the vignettes end in varieties of violence.
The many peripheral themes intelligently raised racism, alienation, the futility of creativity are wiped out as the narrative reshuffles itself and restarts.
It doesnt help that Gina behaves in provocative ways that make sense only if you are a playwright trying to vary the texture of what otherwise amounts to a desperate monologue.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Under the circumstances, Sue Jean Kim, who plays Gina, does a credible job of keeping an incredible character in play.
Her emotional legibility goes a long way toward making some scenes bearable, despite the storys obliterating pressure.
And though Mr. Lee is hardly the runty, pockmarked character Ms. Cho describes in the script, he is all too believable as someone so full of self-loathing that he cannot bear to see himself in other peoples eyes.
The production, staged with swift sang-froid by Neel Keller, does what it can to modulate the mood.
Where it is possible to admit shards of bitter comedy into a scene, as when Gina imitates her disapproving mother as a way of suggesting a commonality with Dennis, the direction makes the most of it.
And Im glad that Mr. Keller has toned down the most terrifying of Ms. Chos devices for involving the audience in the gun culture shes exploring.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Even toned down, though, the play doesnt lack for terror.
Technically, the production is extremely skillful you might even say cunning at producing that response.
In Takeshi Katas set design, the banal office slides forward out of the dark like a monster emerging from a swamp.
And Bray Poors sound design, both in its subtleties and outbursts, could hardly be more effective.
But the question remains: effective to what end?
I do not doubt that Ms. Cho intended Office Hour to be something more than a thriller.
Her previous plays, including The Language Archive and Aubergine, are quiet, charming, almost whimsical riffs on themes of assimilation and loss of identity.
And here, too, she seems to be interested in finding something to add to the painful national conversation about guns besides more pain.
In the opening scene among the instructors, one, a poet named Genevieve, introduces a subtle point.
There are broken people always have been, always will, she says.
But now?
Its like theyve been given ideas.
You expect the word guns there, not ideas, and the link between them is one I wish Ms. Cho had considered further.
At one point, she seems to get close.
The temptation is that we should write bigger than ourselves or more than ourselves, like writing is some kind of shadow we cast, and we want to throw the biggest shadow possible, Gina tells Dennis.
But the simpler, the truer, the more close to actual size the writing is, the better.
With the problem of gun violence in the United States so out of scale, its hard to tell whether Ms. Cho is excusing the overreach of Office Hour with this line, or, like me, damning it.
On the whole the production has been gimmicked too much, Harold C. Schonberg of The New York Times wrote in his review of Mr. Corsaros production of The Makropoulos Affair at City Opera in 1970, which included sexually explicit film footage.
The opera, he wrote, would have been better served with more attention to the composers ideas and less to the directors.
Mr. Corsaro, though, was happy to raise eyebrows.
Its all an effort to break up the prevailing timid approach to opera production, he said in an interview about that production.
You know, where they think its daring to use a few slides.
Francesco Corsaro was born on Dec. 22, 1924.
As he later told it, his birth took place aboard a ship as his parents, who had emigrated from Italy, were coming into New York Harbor from Argentina, where they had lived briefly.
His father, Giuseppe, was a tailor, and his mother, the former Antonietta Guarino, was a homemaker.
His first exposure to opera was listening to radio broadcasts with his father, a fan.
But at a young age he discovered that free standing-room tickets were available at some opera houses to claquers, who would applaud on cue when their designated star appeared.
Photo Mr. Corsaro attended the Yale School of Drama and directed a production of Sartres No Exit at the Cherry Lane Theater in 1947 while still a student there.
In 1950 he joined the Actors Studio, the famed incubator of method actors, and for a time he pursued acting himself.
I was sort of an early ham, looking to find a proper refrigerator, he said.
He had small roles in several Broadway productions in the early 1950s as well as a few television appearances, but that vocation soon fell by the wayside (though he did appear in the 1968 movie Rachel, Rachel, directed by his fellow Actors Studio member Paul Newman).
He directed The Scarecrow Off Broadway in 1953 with a cast that included James Dean, Patricia Neal and Eli Wallach, and in 1955 he notched his first Broadway directing credit for The Honeys, a Roald Dahl comedy starring Hume Cronyn and Jessica Tandy.
Later that year he made a bigger impression directing the Broadway production of A Hatful of Rain, a drama about addiction starring Ben Gazzara and Shelley Winters.
It ran for 398 performances.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story He also received the directors credit on The Night of the Iguana, the Tennessee Williams play that premiered on Broadway in 1961, though Bette Davis, one of the shows stars, had him barred from rehearsals during the pre-Broadway run in Chicago.
(We differed on interpretation, he told The Times in 1979.)
After that difficult experience, his attention increasingly turned to opera, and his production of La Traviata for City Opera in 1966, with Patricia Brooks and Plcido Domingo, was something of a breakthrough.
The new Traviata staged last night at the New York State Theater is, consistently, the most intelligent and best-acted presentation I have ever seen, Mr. Schonberg wrote in The Times.
It is a Traviata full of original touches, and tradition has gone out the window, he continued.
But everything has been done with such professionalism, together with an avoidance of campy effects, that the overall line is never broken, even though it may be slightly wrenched.
Quite a few traditions went out the window, in Mr. Schonbergs phrase, in Corsaro productions for City Opera sometimes too many.
His 1972 Don Giovanni became somewhat infamous.
When Mr. Corsaro and the conductor, Bruno Maderna, came forth after the final curtain on opening night, both got as lusty a collection of boos as has enlivened the New York State Theater since it was opened, Mr. Schonberg wrote.
They deserved every bit of it, he added, finding the interpretation sexed up, frenetic and overstuffed with unfamiliar ideas.
Mr. Corsaros treatment of Don Giovanni approached vandalism.
Photo If Mr. Corsaros productions sometimes inflamed, he was always eager to explore and to push opera out of its stand-and-deliver comfort zone emphasizing sex and sensuality and story lines, changing settings, and above all pushing singers to dig deep to find their characters, as an actor would.
We have been brainwashed into believing that the true singer is the one with the azureclad voice one odd or coarse sound constituting a fall from grace, he wrote in an article for The Times that was excerpted from his 1978 memoir, Maverick: A Directors Personal Experience in Opera & Theater.
Its part of the Norman Rockwell syndrome, where art and artists, like all winter days, are valentines.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story If that cost some purity on the musical side, he didnt care.
Inconsistent vocal production is minor sacrifice to pay in the shaping of great art, he wrote.
Other noteworthy productions among his dozens of City Opera credits included Madama Butterfly (1967), Faust (1968), Pellas and Mlisande (1970) and La Fanciulla del West (1977).
But his directing took him all over the world, to the Houston Grand Opera, the Washington Opera Society, the San Francisco Opera and many others.
He enjoyed a fruitful partnership with Maurice Sendak, the author and illustrator known for childrens books like Where the Wild Things Are.
Mr. Sendak designed the sets for Mr. Corsaros productions of The Magic Flute in Houston in 1980, The Cunning Little Vixen for City Opera in 1981 and several others.
In 1971 Mr. Corsaro married Mary Cross Lueders (known as Bonnie), a mezzo-soprano with City Opera.
She died in 2016.
In addition to his son, he is survived by a brother, Anthony, and two grandsons.
Mr. Corsaro also wrote several librettos and is remembered by many as a teacher, whether in his capacity as director or in other settings.
He taught at and directed the American Opera Center at Juilliard.
In 1988 he became artistic director of his old stomping ground, the Actors Studio.
Mr. Domingo, still in his 20s when he worked with Mr. Corsaro, said in a telephone interview that the directors ideas were at first startling, but grew on him, and left him with an appreciation for stage-director approach to opera, and for bending boundaries.
If it makes sense, Mr. Domingo said, then you can have wonderful things.
In a video made for the Opera Honors award, the director Stephen Wadsworth summed up Mr. Corsaros influence, singling out the three-year span that brought his City Opera productions of La Traviata, Madama Butterfly and Faust.
The wonderful thing about Franks work, he said, is that Frank is an American, and so the great glory of the American acting tradition, which is working from the inside out, was all over these shows, and all over the performances.
And that was an absolute revelation, and a real revolution for opera.
Photo Our guide to plays and musicals coming to New York stages and a few last-chance picks of shows that are about to close.
Our reviews of open shows are at nytimes.com/reviews/theater.
Previews and Openings ACTUALLY at Stage II at New York City Center (in previews; opens on Nov. 14).
Anna Ziegler (The Last Match, Photograph 51) is a playwright who believes that every story has at least two sides.
And sometimes several more.
In this Manhattan Theater Club show, directed by Lileana Blain-Cruz, Joshua Boone and Alexandra Socha play Princeton first-years who have very different recollections of the night they spent together.
212-581-1212, manhattantheatreclub.com DESCRIBE THE NIGHT at the Linda Gross Theater (previews start on Nov. 11; opens on Dec. 5).
True is what happens, says a member of the Soviet secret police.
False is what does not happen.
So where does this new play by Rajiv Joseph belong?
Based on historical fact and literary invention, it spans 90 years, from the writer Isaac Babels adventures in the First Cavalry Army in 1920 to a fatal plane crash in 2010.
Giovanna Sardelli directs for the Atlantic Theater.
866-811-4111, atlantictheater.org DOWNTOWN RACE RIOT at the Pershing Square Signature Center (previews start on Nov. 14; opens on Dec. 3).
In 1976, a group of young men rampaged through Washington Square Park bearing bats and chains and beating anyone not white.
Seth Zvi Rosenfelds play, directed by Scott Elliott and starring Chlo Sevigny, returns to that gruesome summer day.
212-279-4200, thenewgroup.org Advertisement Continue reading the main story HUNDRED DAYS at New York Theater Workshop (previews start on Nov. 15; opens on Dec. 4).
Does the couple that makes a play together stay together?
This folk-rock musical, composed by and starring the married songwriters Abigail and Shaun Bengson, both celebrates their love and meditates on mortality.
Reviewing an earlier production, Ben Brantley wrote that it finds the unexpected harmony in angst and indecision.
212-460-5475, nytw.org LATIN HISTORY FOR MORONS at Studio 54 (previews start on Oct. 19; opens on Nov. 15).
The antic solo artist John Leguizamo teaches theatergoers a thing or two in this show, which recounts his own efforts to learn about his roots.
When it ran at the Public Theater earlier this year, Ben Brantley called this show, directed by Tony Taccone, harshly funny, surprisingly poignant.
212-239-6200, LatinHistoryBroadway.com
As a result of this tasteless photo, Ms. Griffin didnt just receive death threats, lose gigs and sponsorship money, and get fired as a host of CNNs annual New Years Eve special.
She was also put on the no-fly list and became the subject of a Secret Service investigation for, she says, conspiracy to assassinate the president.
When she asked the federal agent why the government was going to such extremes, the woman pointed upward, indicating, Ms. Griffin interpreted, that this came from the president himself.
Onstage, in front of red block letters spelling out her first name, Ms. Griffin wore the blue dress from the fateful photo, and appeared defiant one moment, shook up the next.
She singled out stars who sent their support, fired back at celebrities who criticized the photo (look out, Alyssa Milano and Debra Messing), and got emotional about others, like Anderson Cooper, her co-host on New Years Eve, who tweeted his disapproval.
You know what Cher said?
Ms. Griffin said onstage, shifting into an impression of her friend.
Well, you wanted to be famous, bitch.
The entire episode showed her to be the outsider she always said she was, skewering the famous while somehow being obsessed with them at the same time.
In this regard, shes a perfect match for Mr. Trump, whom she has known for nearly two decades, dating to an episode of the 1990s sitcom Suddenly Susan on which both appeared.
She remembered the moment on Wednesday: When he greeted her with Call me The Donald, she responded, Call me The Kathy.
Mr. Trump may come from Queens and Ms. Griffin from suburban Chicago, but for some time now, they have both lived on Planet Celebrity.
Though Ms. Griffin spent years making fun of Kim Kardashian, she moved next door to this reality TV star, and when not mocking the Trump family on Wednesday (she called his older sons Eddie Munster and Date Rape), Ms. Griffin spilled secrets about the home life of Kanye West and Ms. Kardashian: They drive around in a Rolls-Royce golf cart and keep the mannequin of Taylor Swift from his Famous video in their house.
Sometimes, late at night, I can hear them printing money, she quipped.
Ms. Griffin does not write taut jokes; she emerged from the West Coast alt-comedy scene of the 1990s, when comics were reacting against the machine-gun-joke style of comedy clubs and building acts on digressive stories and conversational riffs.
Even then, Ms. Griffin relied on highly personal revelations, often shameless and sexual and sprinkled with celebrity dust.
If she slept with Jack Black, she talked about it onstage, then wrote about talking about it.
She is famous for frivolity, derided by some peers for her obsession with boldface names.
But its not fair to chalk up Ms. Griffins success to our cultures lust for scandal and stardom, though thats certainly part of it.
I will be your guilty pleasure, she wrote in her best-selling 2009 memoir, Official Book Club Selection.
Ms. Griffin, who reveres Joan Rivers, belongs to a glorious show-business tradition of hard-working, mouthy survivors with ambition to burn, an instinct for self-promotion and a chip on the shoulder.
If she ever cared about alienating someone famous to get a laugh whether a network executive, a commander in chief or garden-variety actors doing their best she doesnt anymore.
I have a lot of female hostility, she said Wednesday, pivoting from earnest to glib.
Its very trendy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Some of that hostility is directed toward Harvey Levin, the TMZ founder, and Andy Cohen, the host of Watch What Happens Live and her replacement on the New Years Eve show.
After Mr. Cohen pretended that he didnt know who Ms. Griffin was in a video on TMZ, Ms. Griffin responded with a 17-minute video of her own in which she criticized both men for misogyny.
She also revealed Mr. Levins phone number and claimed that Mr. Cohen offered her cocaine twice (he has denied it).
Onstage she took shots at both of them again, but the variety of insults she leveled, some more thinly supported than others, made it seem as if she were just tossing out the kitchen sink, and not to funny ends.
Ms. Griffin often veered off-course, and when she referred to being in the United Kingdom, she was startled by the angry reaction of the Dublin audience.
The packed crowd of die-hard fans turned on her, hissing and booing.
She seemed thrown off-balance, and had trouble returning to her story, not for the last time.
Some forceful directorial guidance could hone this wandering series of stories into a more refined show that sticks to a theme and a through-line revolving around Mr. Trump.
But this messy, indulgent production instead gives us Ms. Griffin unfiltered, which has the benefit of seeming like a backstage gossip session, albeit one that lost steam as it headed past the 60-minute mark and she dabbed sweat from her forehead.
After more than two hours, Ms. Griffin started telling a story about Mariah Carey when she froze, looked down and slumped, suddenly silent.
She leaned into the microphone and said: Randy, Im going down.
Her boyfriend hurried onstage and grabbed her.
Before he escorted her offstage, she said, Ill be back.
The crowd gasped and waited in the dark for minutes, until he helped Ms. Griffin back to the microphone, when she muttered something hard to hear over the cheers.
What was clear was that the show was over.
She later apologized in a video, saying she fainted.
It was a shockingly anxious end to the evening, revealing perhaps the toll this sprawling tour (or her recent controversies) has taken on her.
But counting out a force of nature like Ms. Griffin is a mistake.
Just as the condemnation of her Trump photo fueled this new show, her collapse just added more drama to an evening that did not lack for it.
As she exited with assistance, she turned to the crowd and scrunched her face into a self-mocking grimace that seemed to say: How ridiculous is this?
Fast-paced, angry and frequently hilarious, the evening was to a scripted show what Todd Hayness Bob Dylan movie Im Not There was to a traditional biopic, trading literal illustration for imaginative retelling.
It was unpredictable, thrilling.
Ms. McKay has two more midnight engagements at Joes Pub, on Friday and on Nov. 17, and there is no telling what she will do.
For Joan Rivers, things started to click in 1962, when, she wrote in her book, I began freeing my mouth, letting things pop out of it, letting it bring a bit of surprise and shock into the act.
Perhaps Ms. McKay experienced something similar last week; she has always been a charismatic performer, but the new constraints spurred her.
Her first words on that fateful third outing: Ive got a cease-and-desist order about this show, so I cant do it, a comical exaggeration.
She never pronounced the words Joan Rivers, referring once to a June Rover then to this person.
Photo Bringing up a 1959 Off Off Broadway play that Rivers did with Barbra Streisand only those familiar with Rivers lore would have recognized the story Ms. McKay referred to this persons co-star as a gal who went to Erasmus High School and later directed a movie that rhymes with mental.
To evoke the Catskills resorts where this person plied her trade, the musician played a fiery medley of Liberaces Boogie Woogie and the standard Willow Weep for Me (it is likely to be on her next album, due in the spring).
The references were allusive rather than pointed, and exceptions included an appropriately lewd Harvey Weinstein joke Rivers would probably have loved.
In the first two shows, Ms. McKay generally paraphrased rather than directly quoted Enter Talking.
In the third one, the references were cryptic.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
At one of Riverss favorite haunts, Sarabeths on Central Park South, Ms. McKay said, Its the best book about show business Ive ever read.
She switched to a 1940s moll voice: And Ive read them all!
My mother said I read it at a very impressionable age, but I must still be at an impressionable age because I still love it.
She added that she is keen to eventually submit a script to the estate and get back on the Rivers track.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Then again, bypassing the nuts and bolts of Riverss life let the singer put her own sardonic wit to great use.
When an audience member requested The Dog Song, a favorite from her catalog, Ms. McKay indulged him, sunnily adding, Because, like this person, Im a snob whos sold out a thousand times.
Since her debut album Get Away from Me (2003), Ms. McKay, a firebrand who can quote the radical feminist Shulamith Firestone and Doris Day in the same breath, has settled somewhere between the worlds of cabaret and singer-songwriter pop without fitting into either.
Last Friday, her set list swung between originals and white-hot covers of such songs as Richard and Mimi Farias Bold Marauder.
The banter was tighter, which seems paradoxical given that it was mostly devoid of specifics.
But Ms. McKay succeeded in bringing to loving life what drew her to Enter Talking in the first place: a faded era of American showbiz, as she likes to put it, with its cigar-chomping agents and musty clubs.
I know a little bit of that New York, Ms. McKay said at Sarabeths.
I wrote the whole first album above Howard Johnsons at 46th and Broadway, at a place called Harlequin Studios.
It had a bit of a unique smell.
I was devastated when that place and Howard Johnsons left.
It was a little slice of Joans life.
A question asked of any live performer is whether they can duplicate the magic night after night.
Its especially salient for Ms. McKay, a loose cannon who thrives in the moment.
How, and if, she ends up folding in more Rivers-themed material may make the show that much more exciting.
People are ruled by fear, certainly myself, Ms. McKay said, laughing.
My entire, in quotes, career is outside my comfort zone.
Photo In the flickering half-light, the room is worn and spare: a single armchair on the scuffed wooden floor, a narrow bed in the far corner, a lone suitcase stashed beneath.
The slender figure lying prone on the thin mattress is so still that you might not realize its there.
That would explain the gasps when Man to Man, part of the Brooklyn Academy of Musics Next Wave Festival, began on Tuesday night at BAM Fisher.
Rising suddenly from the dimness, the figure lurched across the stage, looking from the neck up like the M.C.
from Cabaret.
With kohl-rimmed eyes and short, slicked-back hair, this was a woman disguised as a man, in proletarian attire.
Photo Her name is Ella, and her strange tale (based on a true story, it could be a cousin to I Am My Own Wife) starts straightforwardly enough: When her husband died in their native Germany between the world wars, she wrote her own name on his tombstone and dressed as him to take his job.
Passing as a man, she became trapped in that identity as Hitler rose to power.
Written by Manfred Karge and newly translated by Alexandra Wood, Man to Man is a dark, dreamily poetic play from 1982.
But the story doesnt really get a fair shake in this production from the Wales Millennium Center.
Thats no fault of the actress, Maggie Bain, who with a sort of wonder in her tone makes credible the most eyebrow-raising plot point: that someone who had never been a crane operator, as Ellas husband was, could take over the job undetected.
The directors, Bruce Guthrie and Scott Graham, seem much more interested in atmospherics than narrative.
Their production is rife with eye- and ear-catching design.
The sound (by Mike Walker) sometimes feels like another character, and the stage pictures are often stunning: the set (by Richard Kent) that becomes a shadowy latticework when backlit (by Rick Fisher), projections (by Andrzej Goulding) that conjure romance or the ominous outside world.
When Ella perches, magically, halfway up a wall, we could be watching something out of Kafka.
A woman who buried herself alive for the sake of survival, Ella never scrabbles her way to the surface again.
As she sifts through her hard-to-track memories, tinkling music-box melodies by Matthew Scott underscore the emotion thats meant to be there.
But the storytelling felt so distant that I wished something I almost never have that a traditional production were immersive instead.
En Los Aos 1600, Joe Arroyo Thats so dope.
I wanted to have it in the show I tried to add it in the end but I just couldnt.
Just the way he breaks down salsa.
He breaks it down to the clave.
You dont usually hear someone break it down to the clave.
Then the story hes a storyteller, this guy.
Hes talking about disrespect to black women and the slave master disrespecting the woman and this man cant take it anymore so he leaps at the master.
The Big Payback, James Brown I cant live without James Brown.
Hes the lifeline of everything, man.
It just hits me in my happy bone, you know?
As Im getting ready, I get dressed and then I start dancing around just to try to get in touch with things that make me feel like me.
His music was at a perfect time because it was during civil rights activism and he became a voice of it.
The music has pride and anger and protest built in.
La Schmoove, Fu-Schnickens I dont have any hip-hop in the show.
I have this in the preshow house playlist.
This is when hip-hop was free, when it was really creative, when it didnt have to be gangster rap.
When it didnt have to exploit women.
It was about dudes having a blast together, being dudes, being bros and just having fun.
Boleros by La Sonora Matancera You have to include some of the best periods of our music, which includes this 50s bolero stuff.
Every Latin person my age would always have it in the background.
It would be my grandparents listening to this music.
[I think] about my grandma and her going about her life and Im sure she was thinking about her dating days.
Its very nostalgic because I feel she was listening in a nostalgic kind of way: about lost love and love that cant be requited, the anguish of not having the person you want by your side at night.
Nocturnes by Chopin How can you be a full man or a full human being without being inclusive and without being eclectic?
This music just really helps me connect with the more creative side, my more vulnerable side.
My more meditative and thoughtful side.
I dont want to dis New Age music.
Theres a place for it, but its not really for me.
This is what I feel like I can meditate to.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Kind of Blue, Miles Davis Miles Davis makes you more of an artist.
To help not take the road most traveled, take the other road.
I always feel like hes telling me, Trust your instinct and not try to please.
Please yourself and thats the only way to please the artist gods.
La Vaca, Mala Fe This is just about joy and freedom and sexiness the song at the house parties we used to have when everybody gets up and everybody is dancing.
Even people who were afraid of dancing.
[I put this in the show] because its the most fun out of all the merengues Ive ever heard.
Its funny.
The song lyrics are ridiculous.
Its the nonsense that life is about.
Youve got to celebrate silliness.
Its a huge part of life and it never gets the respect it deserves.
Photo Two hundred and forty-five years ago, a young Alexander Hamilton made his way from the Caribbean to New York to start a new life.
Now Hamilton, the hit musical about that life, is making its way to the Caribbean.
The production announced Wednesday that Lin-Manuel Miranda, the creator and original star of the musical, would return to the title role for a three-week run in Puerto Rico in January 2019.
Mr. Miranda, whose parents moved to New York from Puerto Rico, is now visiting the island to support hurricane relief efforts.
When I last visited the island, a few weeks before Hurricane Maria, I had made a commitment to not only bring the show to Puerto Rico, but also return again to the title role, he said in a statement.
In the aftermath of Maria we decided to expedite the announcement of the project to send a bold message that Puerto Rico will recover and be back in business, stronger than ever.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Hamilton opened on Broadway in 2015, and in 2016 won the Pulitzer Prize and 11 Tony Awards, including for best new musical.
The Broadway production is still going strong, bringing in more than $2 million a week, and there are productions in Chicago and on a U.S. tour (currently in Los Angeles).
A London production is set to open next month, and a second U.S. tour is scheduled to begin performances in Seattle in February.
The Puerto Rico performances will be a stop on one of the tours.
The show will run from Jan. 8 to Jan. 27, 2019, at Teatro UPR, the theater at the University of Puerto Ricos main campus in San Juan.
Photo In recent years, the movie musical has struggled for its complete resurrection as a genre, in efforts ranging from the Hollywood high-flown (Into the Woods) to the modest and quirky (Jeffrey St. Juless little-seen Bang Bang Baby, from 2014).
And now, somewhere between the two, lies Hello Again, Tom Gustafsons florid adaptation of Michael John LaChiusas 1993 Off Broadway show (itself based on Arthur Schnitzlers La Ronde).
What most distinguishes Hello Again from the others is its cast of New York theater powerhouses, including Martha Plimpton, Audra McDonald and Cheyenne Jackson.
Hello Again largely eschews dialogue as it leaps among historical eras and song sequences, depicting a series of fraught romantic encounters across decades.
(Few film musicals have so teemed with non-graphic scenes of sexual acts.)
Video It begins with a woman (Ms. Plimpton) who enters a peep-show-like chamber, seeking counsel about love from a mysterious masked man before her.
And then its off to a coupling between a prostitute and a soldier in 1901; a tryst between a rich man (T. R. Knight) and a younger one on the Titanic; a 1920s affair in a movie theater involving an adulteress (Rumer Willis); a Greenwich Village disco hookup in the 1970s; and so on.
The best comes near the end, when Ms. McDonald, as a singer in 2002 reaching for a comeback in a cheesy music video, puts Auto-Tune to shame.
A later segment takes place in 1989, in which Ms. Plimpton plays a Washington senator keeping her lover (Ms. McDonald) a secret.
Their scenes together are worth the price of admission.
The movie benefits from Austin Schmidts neon-infused cinematography and Annie Simeones lush production design.
But Mr. LaChiusas songs largely fail to resonate here.
Dramatic traction suffers, probably as a result of the many, and diffuse, vignettes.
And yet this is a commendably audacious effort by Mr. Gustafson (Were the World Mine).
The movie musical needs more ambitious creators like him.
Hello Again Director Tom Gustafson Writer Cory Krueckeberg Stars Martha Plimpton, Sam Underwood, Nolan Gerard Funk, Jenna Ushkowitz, Al Calderon Running Time 1h 45m Genres Drama, Music, Musical, Romance Movie data powered by IMDb.com Last updated: Nov 13, 2017
Photo The first thing an audience sees when it enters the New Ohio Theater for ____ Marry Kill, James Pressons play with an unpublishable name, is a projection that reads, This is a play about where I grew up.
It was exactly like this.
If true, then lets hope Mr. Presson left early and subsequently clocked some serious therapy time.
Prurient, futile and unconscionably long, his darkly comic portrait of teen life has an unusually high body count.
At the risk of impugning Mr. Presson, this may not be strict autobiography.
The play, produced by Less Than Rent theater, shares most of its plot points with John Fords superlatively lurid tragedy Tis Pity Shes a Whore, a fact Presson slyly acknowledges in the scripts subtitle, A Jacobean Revenge Comedy.
(Technically, Fords play falls into the Caroline Era.
But as Mr. Pressons characters often say, Whatever.)
The play begins with an unnecessary frame story.
Ryan (Alex Breaux) is lounging atop a Colorado mountain with his new friend Jenni (Ismenia Mendes) when a phone call from his brother lures him back to Greenport, Conn., and a set bounded with velvet ropes and topped with dozens of dangling blades.
Because love is a boxing match.
Or a knife fight.
Or an MMA bout.
Probably.
Ostensibly, Ryan has returned to care for his cancer-stricken mother, while his brother, Brandon (Robbie Collier Sublett), elopes to Las Vegas with a barely legal girlfriend.
To say that Jenni inexplicably tags along and that the mother and Brandons girlfriend are never seen and barely mentioned is to give some sense of the all-the-way-to-China plot holes Mr. Presson digs.
Photo Back home, Ryan falls in with his high school crowd, many of whom are still in high school, becoming an accidental witness to incest, murder, suicide, attempted poisonings, extreme drug taking and a couple of scuppered teenage weddings.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Most of these incidents have analogues in Fords play, but as Joseph (Riley Suter), half of the sibling incest team, says to a friend, Well, this is getting sort of
A year ago, the Big Apple shrank a little.
Big Apple Circus, which opened in 1977, had amassed more than $8 million in debt and did not produce a fall show.
A crowdfunding campaign sputtered, and the circus filed for bankruptcy.
But after a successful auction, Big Apple Circus has returned to Damrosch Park at Lincoln Center with its, well, core sensibilities intact.
Big Apple Circus has switched from nonprofit to for-profit, but on a Saturday this month, the big top looked more or less the same.
The souvenir stand had stayed modest; the portable toilets were unimproved.
Concessions were of the chips-popcorn-churro variety, though the Dippin Dots came in a glowing cup, which seemed troubling.
There was also a small booth selling beer and wine, where a few of the parents had lined up.
At 11 a.m., some people find the circus taxing.
Inside were plenty of familiar faces, both in the ring and behind the scenes.
Big Apple has retained the director Mark Lonergan, the music director Rob Slowik, the writer and clown Joel Jeske and Barry Lubin, a rubber-faced pro who plays Grandma, a housecoat-clad clown who is ardently and inexplicably beloved.
(Well, its probably more explicable if you like clowns.
And flatulence jokes.)
Nov. 13 (UPI) -- Amazon says it has acquired the global television rights to the late J.R.R.
Tolkien's classic The Lord of the Rings series of fantasy novels.
The streaming giant's planned multi-season series will explore new storylines set before The Fellowship of the Ring.
The show is to be produced by Amazon Studios in cooperation with the Tolkien Estate and Trust, HarperCollins and New Line Cinema, a division of Warner Bros. Entertainment.
The deal includes a potential, additional spin-off series, the parties said in a press release.
No casting has been announced yet.
"The Lord of the Rings is a cultural phenomenon that has captured the imagination of generations of fans through literature and the big screen," Sharon Tal Yguado, head of scripted series at Amazon Studios, said in a statement Monday.
"We are honored to be working with the Tolkien Estate and Trust , HarperCollins and New Line on this exciting collaboration for television and are thrilled to be taking The Lord of the Rings fans on a new epic journey in Middle Earth."
"We are delighted that Amazon, with its longstanding commitment to literature, is the home of the first-ever, multi-season television series for The Lord of the Rings," added Matt Galsor, a representative for the Tolkien Estate and Trust and HarperCollins.
"Sharon and the team at Amazon Studios have exceptional ideas to bring to the screen previously unexplored stories based on J.R.R.
Tolkien's original writings."
Filmmaker Peter Jackson previously adapted The Lord of the Rings books as a trilogy of big-screen blockbusters.
Jackson also helmed three movies based on Tolkien's The Hobbit, which is a prequel to The Lord of the Rings adventures.
Nov. 13 (UPI) -- South Korean boy band Wanna One returned with new music Monday.
The K-pop group released the album 1-1=0 (Nothing Without You) and a movie version of their "Beautiful" music video.
1-1=0 (Nothing Without You) is a repackaged version of Wanna One's debut EP, 1x1=1 (To Be One).
The boy band promoted the album at a press event Monday in Seoul, according to The Korea Herald.
"While we've showcased our energetic and passionate sides as rookies through our previous works, we tried to relive the time before our debut, when our days were full of anxieties and contemplation of our future," Hwang Min-hyun said.
1-1=0 (Nothing Without You) includes 11 tracks, including "Beautiful" and remixes of the group's hits "Energetic" and "Burn It Up."
The movie version of the "Beautiful" music video features actor Cha Seung-won.
Wanna One was formed in Season 2 of the Korean reality competition Produce 101 this year.
The boy band was nominated for Best South Korean Act at the 2017 MTV EMAs Sunday, and is up for three awards at the 2017 Mnet Asian Music Awards.
Nov. 13 (UPI) -- Hugh Jackman purses his dream of building a circus in the second trailer for upcoming musical, The Greatest Showman.
The clip, released Monday, features Jackman as Barnum & Bailey Circus founder P.T.
Barnum as he struggles and ultimately triumphs in helping to create the show business industry.
In order to complete his dream, Jackman recruits a number of unique individuals to perform during his show including a bearded woman who feel shunned by society.
The trailer also features Michelle Williams, Rebecca Ferguson, Zac Efron and Zendaya as two circus performers who begin to fall in love.
"No one ever made a difference by being like everyone else," Jackman says.
"Inspired by the imagination of P.T.
Barnum, The Greatest Showman is an original musical that celebrates the birth of show business & tells of a visionary who rose from nothing to create a spectacle that became a worldwide sensation," reads the synopsis.
The Greatest Showman from director Michael Gracey, is set to arrive in theaters on Dec. 20.
Nov. 13 (UPI) -- Michael Bubl will return to the stage next year after taking a hiatus from music to care for his elder son.
The 42-year-old Canadian singer announced Monday on social media that he will perform at two concerts in July 2018.
Bubl will visit Dublin on July 7 before headlining the British Summer Time music festival in London on July 13.
The concerts will be his only shows in Ireland and the U.K., respectively.
"Michael performs at Croke Park in Dublin on Saturday 7th July," the star's team wrote on Facebook.
"This will be Michael's ONLY IRE show in 2018.
Tickets go on sale at 9am Friday 17th November."
"Michael will be headlining London's @BSTHydePark on Friday 13th July -- His only UK show in 2018!
Tickets go on sale 9am Friday," the team added on Twitter.
Michael will be headlining Londons @BSTHydePark on Friday 13th July His only UK show in 2018!
Tickets go on sale 9am Friday.
pic.twitter.com/Oju7QgB1x8 Michael Bubl (@michaelbuble) November 13, 2017 Bubl announced in November 2016 that Noah, his 4-year-old son with Luisana Lopilato, was diagnosed with cancer.
Lopilato said at a press conference in April that Noah is now "well" and recovering from the disease.
"My son's recovery is a long process as you all know and he has to continue with checkups.
But we are very happy," the actress said.
"We are looking forward to thinking about the future, to seeing our children grow.
Bubl and Lopilato, who married in March 2011, also share 21-month-old son Elias.
Nov. 13 (UPI) -- Jessica Simpson says husband Eric Johnson popped the question to a Led Zeppelin song.
The 37-year-old singer and designer posted a throwback photo Sunday while reflecting in an Instagram post on the seven-year anniversary of her engagement, which happened Nov. 11.
The black and white picture shows Simpson smiling as she shows off her engagement ring.
The star appears to be sitting on her porch while surrounded by rose petals.
"Got engaged to 'Since I've Been Loving You' by Led Zeppelin on 11/11 at 11:11 AM 7 years ago.
Still loving this Man is the easiest part of my life #HowtheWestWasWon," she wrote.
Got engaged to Since Ive Been Loving You by Led Zeppelin on 11/11 at 11:11 AM 7 years ago.
Still loving this Man is the easiest part of my life #HowtheWestWasWon A post shared by Jessica Simpson (@jessicasimpson) on Nov 12, 2017 at 3:49pm PST Simpson and Johnson got engaged after six months of dating, and married in Montecito, Calif., in July 2014.
The pair, who share 5-year-old daughter Maxwell Drew and 4-year-old son Ace Knute, celebrated their seventh anniversary as a couple in May.
"7 years, 2 kids and a whole lotta love later #may21 #MAXIDREW #ACEKNUTE," Simpson wrote at the time.
Simpson previously told Access Hollywood that marrying Johnson shaped her identity more than motherhood, saying, "Eric is the best.
Being married, for me, it defines me so much more than even having kids."
Nov. 13 (UPI) -- Musician Bob Geldof is returning his Freedom of the City of Dublin award in protest of Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi due to her handling of the Rohingya crisis.
Geldof is handing back the award which Suu Kyi also shares as the Myanmar leader faces criticism after months of violence has forced the mass exodus of Rohingya Muslims from the Rakhine state.
Suu Kyi has yet to speak publicly about the violence against the Muslim minority -- more than 600,000 of whom have fled to Bangladesh in the past few months to escape violence.
"Her association with our city shames us all and we should have no truck with it, even by default.
We honored her, now she appalls and shames us," Geldof, the former singer of Boomtown Rates and the creator of charity concert Live Aid said in a statement.
Geldof, who handed back the award at City Hall in the Irish capital on Monday, also referred to Suu Kyi as a killer.
"Aung San Suu Kyi was extravagantly welcomed to this city, and I was a participant to that ... and it turned out that she's a killer, and I don't want to be on the same list as what the UN described as a genocide," he said as he returned the award, CNN reported.
"I don't want to give this up, I'm really proud of it, you know, and you know I get handed things by states and cities around the world, but I'm a Dub [Dubliner] and this meant very much to me ...
I don't want to do it, but it's the most I can do and the least," Geldof continued.
Geldof received the Freedom of the City of Dublin award in 2006 while Suu Kyi was honored with it in 1999 before receiving it in person in 2012.
Lord Mayor Micheal Mac Donncha of Dublin City Council criticized Geldof for the decision stating, "I find it ironic that he makes this gesture while proudly retaining his title as Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire, given the shameful record of British imperialism across the globe."
Nov. 13 (UPI) -- Kim Kardashian celebrated her third child's impending birth at a floral-filled baby shower.
The 37-year-old reality star was fted by Khloe Kardashian, Kylie Jenner and other family and friends Saturday ahead of the birth of baby No.
3 with husband Kanye West.
Kardashian had confirmed in September that she's expecting via surrogate.
She took to Snapchat to document the bash, which featured gorgeous cherry blossom trees surrounded by fresh white flowers.
"Okay guys, [this is] my baby shower for baby number three," the star said.
"It is a beautiful tea and cherry blossom forest."
Khloe and Kylie, who are also reportedly expecting, shared other posts from the party on social media.
Khloe shared pictures of herself in a minidress following rumors she's pregnant and expecting her first child with Tristan Thompson.
"Cherry Blossoms and Tea for baby number three #KKW," she captioned a slideshow on Instagram.
Cherry Blossoms and Tea for baby number three #KKW A post shared by Khlo (@khloekardashian) on Nov 11, 2017 at 7:41pm PST Model Chrissy Teigen and celebrity hairstylist Jen Atkin were among the other guests at the shower.
Atkin posted a video on Instagram of Kardashian showing off her new fragrances at her party.
"Of course in the middle of her shower i put @kimkardashian to work to go get her new @kkwbeauty fragrances to give us a preview.
Love u KKW and can't wait for baby #3!!"
she wrote.
Of course in the middle of her shower i put @kimkardashian to work to go get her @kkwbeauty fragrances to give us a preview.
Love u KKW and cant wait for baby #3 !!
A post shared by Celebrity Hairstylist (@jenatkinhair) on Nov 12, 2017 at 4:52pm PST Kardashian married West in Florence, Italy, in May 2014.
The couple are already parents to 4-year-old daughter North West and 23-month-old son Saint West, the latter of whom appeared in a new photo last week.
Nov. 13 (UPI) -- Demi Moore received birthday wishes from her three daughters Rumer, Scout, and Tallulah Willis on social media recently as the actress turned 55.
"Happy Birthday to my glorious mama bear.
I love you more than words can say, Rumer, 29 wrote Saturday on her mother's birthday alongside a black and white photo of Moore posing with her daughters when they were young.
"Thank you for being my inspiration my role model and my best friend.
I am so lucky I get to do life with you," she continued.
Scout, 26 also shared a throwback photo of Moore with short hair and muscles during her time starring in G.I.
Jane.
Happy Birthday to my glorious mama bear.
I love you more than words can say.
Thank you for being my inspiration my role model and my best friend.
I am so lucky I get to do life with you.
A post shared by Rumer Willis (@ruelarue) on Nov 11, 2017 at 3:19pm PST "So unbelievably grateful to even know, let alone to be the child of such a strong, tender, intelligent, and fiercely compassionate woman," Scout wrote.
"I am so obsessed with my mom.
She truly is the coolest woman i know.
Here she is displaying both her ferocity/strength and her gooby tenderino side.
Bad [expletive], Scorpio, legendo 11/11," she continued.
A post shared by Scout laRue Willis (@scoutlaruewillis) on Nov 11, 2017 at 3:14pm PST Tallulah, 23, paid tribute to her mother by sharing a headshot of a younger Moore and a photo of the 55-year-old posing while rocking an all black outfit.
"Happy 55th to this legend," Tallulah wrote.
happy 55th to this legend A post shared by tallulah (Youthful Slimelord) (@buuski) on Nov 11, 2017 at 2:53pm PST Moore shares Rumer, Scout and Tallulah with ex-husband Bruce Willis.
Moore last made headlines with her daughters when she posed with her family while attending a wedding in June.
Nov. 13 (UPI) -- Bachelorette alum Emily Maynard is a mom of four.
The 31-year-old Season 8 star confirmed in an Instagram post Monday that she welcomed a baby boy with husband Tyler Johnson.
Maynard shared sweet photos featuring Johnson, her three older children and her infant son.
She is parent to 12-year-old daughter Ricki with her late fianc, Ricky Hendrick, and two sons, 2-year-old Jennings and 13-month-old Gibson, with Johnson.
"God is so good... my cup runneth over... {welcome New Baby Johnson to the world.
If anyone has any good boy names send them my way!
We need help!
}," the star captioned the slideshow.
Maynard also included a video of herself and her baby boy in a hospital bed that Johnson originally shared Sunday on Instagram Stories.
"#4 here," he wrote at the time.
...God is so good... my cup runneth over... {welcome New Baby Johnson to the world.
If anyone has any good boy names send them my way!
We need help!}
A post shared by Emily Maynard Johnson (@emilygmaynard) on Nov 13, 2017 at 7:55am PST Maynard married Johnson in June 2014 following her appearances on The Bachelor Season 8 and The Bachelorette.
She announced her fourth pregnancy in August, saying she was excited to welcome another child.
"Seriously though, as scared as I am to have 3 under 3, I'm so grateful God picked me to be the mommy to my kids and we can't wait for number 4 to get here!"
the star said.
Nov. 13 (UPI) -- Celebrity couple Gigi Hadid and Zayn Malik shared a sweet kiss on their two-year anniversary.
The 22-year-old model posted a clip Sunday on Instagram Stories of herself smooching Malik on their second anniversary as a couple.
The clip shows Hadid smiling and kissing Malik as she holds a drink with a strawberry garnish.
The pair appeared to be out celebrating the occasion.
"2 yrs with my favorite human," Hadid captioned the post.
Hadid and Malik were first linked in November 2015, and made their red carpet debut as a couple at the 2016 Met Gala.
Malik told the Evening Standard in June that he and Hadid are a "normal" couple despite their fame.
"I can understand how it can look, that you've got these two people in a 'power couple,'" the former One Direction singer said.
"That's not something I want to be a part of.
I'm with her because I like her."
"When we come home, we don't really talk about that [expletive]," he added.
"We just spend time together as a normal couple, cook food, watch TV, have a laugh."
Hadid is known for her modeling work with Tommy Hilfiger, and will walk in the 2017 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show with her sister, Bella Hadid, this month.
Malik released his debut solo album, Mind of Mine, in March 2016.
Nov. 13 (UPI) -- Ariel Winter was feeling lucky on her one-year anniversary with boyfriend Levi Meaden.
The 19-year-old actress dedicated a sweet Instagram post to the 30-year-old actor Saturday on their first anniversary as a couple.
"Happy 1 year anniversary my love.
I'm the luckiest girl in the entire world," the Modern Family star captioned photos of herself with Meaden.
"Thank you for being the incredible man you are, and for making me the happiest I could've ever imagined," she gushed.
"Here's to many, many more.
I love you.
P.S.
your crazy butt is the only one who could ever make me agree to jumping off a cliff at a waterfall soooo yeah.
I love you."
Meaden also shared photos and reflected on his "adventures" with Winter on his own account.
"I can't believe it's been a year," the actor wrote.
"We've had adventures.
Gotten dolled up countless times.
And travelled through 3 continents together."
"I never imagined I'd be this happy," he confessed.
"I love you more than anything!
Happy anniversary Peanut Butter!!!!"
Winter, who traveled to China with Meaden in March, opened up about her "great relationship" with the actor in an interview with Us Weekly this month.
"He's just the loveliest person, he loves me through thick and thin," she said.
"He's always telling me, no matter what I'm wearing, no matter what I'm doing, that I'm beautiful."
Nov. 13 (UPI) -- Taylor Swift has announced a new, North American stadium tour in support of her latest album Reputation for 2018.
The tour is set to kick off May 8 in Glendale, Ariz., at the University of Phoenix Stadium before wrapping up October 6 in Arlington, Texas, at the AT&T Stadium.
Swift will be performing in notable cities such as Seattle, Denver, Chicago, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Toronto, Atlanta, Miami, New Orleans and Houston, among others.
Tickets go on sale for the general public starting Dec. 13 with fans able to purchase tickets in advance through Taylor Swift Tix by Ticketmaster Verified Fan.
Registration for the program is open until Nov. 28.
A press release for the tour refers to the announced cities as part of the first round of dates hinting that the singer will be touring beyond October and will perhaps head overseas.
Reputation, released Friday, includes the songs "Look What You Made Me Do," "...Ready For It?"
"Gorgeous" and "Call It What You Want."
Swift will also be performing as part of iHeartRadio's annual Jingle Ball on Dec. 1 in Los Angeles at the Forum and on Dec. 8 in New York at Madison Square Garden.
Nov. 13 (UPI) -- Former couple Rob Kardashian and Blac Chyna celebrated daughter Dream's first birthday at separate events over the weekend.
The 30-year-old Keeping Up with the Kardashians star lavished his baby girl with gifts on her official birthday Friday before Blac Chyna threw the toddler a mermaid-themed party Saturday.
Kardashian gave fans a glimpse into his celebration for Dream in a series of photos on Twitter.
He decorated his home with balloons reading "Happy 1st Birthday Dream," and gave his daughter two toy cars and a rocking horse.
"Love You happy baby," he captioned a picture of Dream smiling while sitting in one of her new, battery-powered cars.
Love You happy baby pic.twitter.com/YJQ9pZ9XvN ROBERT KARDASHIAN (@robkardashian) November 10, 2017 Blac Chyna put together an elaborate, mermaid-themed bash for Dream the next day.
The party featured a five-tier cake decorated with colorful mermaid "scales," and performers dressed as mermaids, according to Entertainment Tonight.
Blac Chyna had shared a photo of Dream wearing a mermaid costume on her actual birthday.
The picture shows the infant smiling and holding a rattle as she sits in a chair by the pool.
"Happy 1st Birthday Dreamy," Blac Chyna wrote.
Happy 1st Birthday Dreamy A post shared by Blac Chyna (@blacchyna) on Nov 10, 2017 at 12:11pm PST Kardashian has kept out of the spotlight since posting an explicit rant and naked photos of Blac Chyna in July.
Blac Chyna, who split from Kardashian last year, filed a lawsuit against the star and his family in October.
Nov. 13 (UPI) -- TLC is cutting ties with Derick Dillard following his series of tweets about Jazz Jennings.
The network responded Saturday after Dillard, the 28-year-old husband of Jill & Jessa: Counting On star Jill Duggar, made new remarks about Jennings, a 17-year-old transgender reality star.
"We want to let our viewers know that Derick Dillard has not participated in Counting On for months and the network has no plans to feature him in the future," TLC, which airs Counting On, wrote on Twitter.
"We want to reiterate that Derick's personal statements do not reflect the views of the network," the network added.
"TLC is proud to share the story of Jazz Jennings and her family and will continue to do so."
Fans had called out Dillard on social media after he criticized Jennings and her TLC series, I Am Jazz, in tweets Thursday.
He referred to Jennings, who identifies as female, with male pronouns in the posts.
"I pity Jazz, 4 those who take advantage of him in order 2 promote their agenda, including the parents who allow these kinds of decisions 2 be made by a child.
It's sad that ppl would use a juvenile this way.
Again, nothing against him, just unfortunate what's on tv these days," the star wrote.
"Never bullied anyone, just said I didn't agree with what is being propagated on tv.
I'm expressing my view of what should be treated as reality; if I say I feel like I am Nepali, that doesn't make me so," he added.
I pity Jazz, 4 those who take advantage of him in order 2 promote their agenda, including the parents who allow these kinds of decisions 2 be made by a child.
Its sad that ppl would use a juvenile this way.
Again, nothing against him, just unfortunate whats on tv these days.
Derick Dillard (@derickmdillard) November 9, 2017 Dillard previously disparaged Jennings and her TV series in August, declaring in tweets that "'Transgender' is a myth."
Jennings responded with a positive message at the time, saying she will "keep sharing" her story.
Nov. 13 (UPI) -- Brantley Gilbert says he's "so thankful" to be a first-time dad.
The 32-year-old country star confirmed Sunday to People that wife Amber Gilbert gave birth to a baby boy, Barrett Hardy-Clay, Nov. 11 in Athens, Ga. "Honestly, I'm just speechless," he told the magazine.
"Watching the delivery, I don't even know what to say.
Amber and I are just so thankful and blessed to have this beautiful little boy."
Gilbert said Barrett was due Nov. 17, but "arrived really fast" after Amber went into labor a few days early.
The infant's hyphenated middle name honors both Brantley and Amber's family -- Hardy comes from Amber's dad's side, while Clay was Brantley's PaPaw's middle name.
"Barrett's a name we had for a very, very long time," the singer added.
"We knew we wanted to have a 'B' name, and [Barrett's] something we've always had and loved."
Gilbert and Amber, who married in June 2015, announced in May that they were expecting after fertility struggles.
The country star skipped the 2017 Country Music Association Awards last week in preparation for his baby boy.
"#CMAawards.... wish I could be out there with y'all but I'm home on baby watch.... good luck to all the nominees and I'll be watching from the couch tonight!
@countrymusic," he tweeted Nov. 8.
Nov. 13 (UPI) -- The world's of Final Fantasy and Tekken are colliding as Final Fantasy XV main character Noctis Lucis Caelum has been announced as a playable character for Tekken 7.
Noctis was announced as an upcoming add-on character for Tekken 7 Sunday during the Tekken World Tour Finals as part of a new gameplay trailer.
The clip features Noctis inside the Final Fantasy XV world alongside his traveling partners Gladiolus, Ignis and Prompto while the group hangs out at the Hammerhead Garage which will act as a new stage in Tekken 7.
Noctis is then seen summoning his Engine Blade to cut down a number of Tekken 7 opponents while also using magic.
"Noctis Lucis Caelum from Final Fantasy XV enters the Tekken 7 ring!
Wielding his signature Engine Blade, Noctis is ready to deal heavy hard-hitting blows as he takes on the likes of Yoshimitsu, Devil Jin, Jack 7, and the rest of the Tekken 7 fighters when he enters the King of Iron Fist Tournament in spring 2018!"
reads the description for Noctis.
Noctis is the second DLC character announced for Tekken 7 following the announcement of Geese Howard entering the game from the King of Fighters series.
Tekken 7 is available for the Playstation 4, Xbox One and PC.
Noctis will also be featured in an upcoming Final Fantasy fighting game, Dissidia Final Fantasy NT, which will be released for the Playstation 4 on Jan. 30.
Nov. 13 (UPI) -- Ellen Page has been cast in Netflix's upcoming series based on comic book The Umbrella Academy from My Chemical Romance alum Gerard Way and Gabriel Ba.
The adaptation, Netflix says, follows a "dysfunctional family of superheroes ... as they work together to solve their father's mysterious death while coming apart at the seams due to their divergent personalities and abilities," Entertainment Weekly reported.
Page will be portraying Vanya, the black sheep of the family who has no superpowers who is struggling to find her place in the world.
Way is the co-executive producer on the project along with Steve Blackman (Fargo) who is executive producing and serving as showrunner, Deadline reported.
The pilot script was written by Jeremy Slater (The Exorcist).
The Umbrella Academy is set to premiere on Netflix with 10 episodes in 2018.
Nov. 13 (UPI) -- Famed gossip columnist Liz Smith who covered the lives of the rich and famous in New York publications for decades, has died at the age of 94.
Smith died Sunday inside her home in Manhattan, her literary agent and friend Joni Evans confirmed to The New York Times.
Smith was known as the "Grand Dame of Dish" and wrote about celebrities in her column titled Liz Smith in the New York Daily News from 1976 to 1991, New York Newsday from 1991 to 1995 and then Newsday until 2005 with some overlap in the New York Post from 1995 to 2009.
The column became syndicated in 70 newspapers and famously covered the divorce between Donald and Ivanka Trump in 1990.
Smith also wrote for Ladies Home Journal, Vogue, Sports Illustrated and served as the entertainment editor in Cosmopolitan throughout her career.
She appeared on the local Fox channel in New York WNBC-TV for 11 years in her show titled Live at Five which earned an Emmy in 1985 and wrote a 2000 memoir titled Natural Blonde that was followed by a cook book in 2005, Dishing: Great Dish - and Dishes - From America's Most Beloved Gossip Columnist.
Smith is survived by several nieces and nephews.
Nov. 13 (UPI) -- Shawn Mendes was the big winner at the MTV Europe Music Awards Sunday in London, taking home a leading four trophies.
Mendes won awards in categories such as Biggest Fans, Best Song for "There's Nothing Holdin' Me Back," Best Artist and Best Canadian Act.
RELATED walk the red carpet at the MTV EMAs Rita Ora Shawn Mendes, walk the red carpet at the MTV EMAs The singer also performed "There's Nothing Holdin' Me Back" onstage at the SSE Arena Wembley.
The event featured performances from Global Icon award winners U2, Best Hip Hop winner Eminem who rapped his new single "Walk on Water," host Rita Ora, and others including Camila Cabello, Liam Payne, The Killers, Travis Scott, Demi Lovato, David Guetta, Stormzy and Kesha.
Cabello who won the EMA for Best Pop, performed her song "Havana" with a fancy pool being projected onto the stage complete with synchronized swimmers.
Other notable winners included Kendrick Lamar winning Best Video for "Humble," Ed Sheeran with Best Live, Best Rock going to Coldplay, Thirty Seconds To Mars earning Best Alternative, ZAYN obtaining Best Look and Dua Lipa taking home Best Artist among others.
Amazon's 'Lord of the Rings' series to explore new storylines 6 hours ago ago Nov. 13 (UPI) -- Amazon says it has acquired the global television rights to the late J.R.R.
Tolkien's classic "The Lord of the Rings" series of fantasy novels.
Nov. 12 (UPI) -- Sexual harassment was a running theme on this weekend's edition of Saturday Night Live, echoing the headlines for current events.
The show opened with a sketch in which Republican Senate candidate Roy Moore, played by Mikey Day, vehemently denies to U.S. Vice President Mike Pence, played by Beck Bennett, that he had a sexual relationship with a minor decades ago when he was in his 30s.
"The left-wing media loves to repeat these sexual-harassment stories.
There's a new one everyday," Day as Moore said.
"I know, even I heard about Louis C.K.
and I'm not allowed to watch TV," Pence said, referring to the comedian -- and frequent SNL guest host -- who last week publicly admitted he behaved inappropriately around numerous female colleagues.
Pence eventually leaves the room and Attorney General Jeff Sessions, played by Kate McKinnon, pops out of a cabinet and tells Moore he should drop out of the Senate race.
"I'm usually the creepiest one in the room, but I look at you and I'm like, 'Oh, my God!'"
McKinnon as Sessions said.
"I'm Alabama, but you, you sir, are TOO Alabama."
Later, during the episode's "Weekend Update" segment, Colin Jost quipped, "It's a good weekend to stay inside since it's 20 degrees out and everyone you've ever heard of is a sex monster," while a photo of Moore, C.K., movie producer Harvey Weinstein and actor Kevin Spacey flashed on the screen.
Cecily Strong also showed up as Claire, an exasperated human resources worker, tasked with interviewing Jost to see if he understands what constitutes acceptable workplace behavior.
Jost answered correctly when quizzed about obvious sounding workplace violations.
"You passed," Claire told Jost.
"But I'm sure I'll be back next week and the week after that, forever and ever because all of this isn't just a scandal.
It didn't just start last week.
It's actual reality for half the population."
Nov. 12 (UPI) -- Film icon Will Smith shared on Facebook a photo of him and his co-stars visiting the ancient city of Petra in Jordan last week.
"We're shooting Aladdin in Jordan.
Took my crew to see PETRA!
It's been on my Bucket List for about 20 years.
IT'S CRAZY!"
he captioned the image.
"Special "Thank You" to the Royal Family & to the people of Jordan.
You all took PERFECT CARE of us.
We Shall Return!"
Smith plays the Genie in the live-action, musical movie.
The ensemble also includes Mena Massoud as Aladdin, Naomi Scott as Princess Jasmine and Marwan Kenzari as Jafar.
It is set for theatrical release May 24, 2019.
Nov. 12 (UPI) -- The Chris Hemsworth-led superhero movie Thor: Ragnarok is the No.
1 movie in North America, earning $56.6 million in receipts during its second weekend, BoxOfficeMojo.com said Sunday.
Coming in at No.
2 is Daddy's Home 2 with $30 million, followed by Murder on the Orient Express at No.
3 with $28.2 million, A Bad Moms Christmas at No.
4 with $11.5 million and Jigsaw at No.
5 with $3.4 million.
Rounding out the top tier are Tyler Perry's Boo 2!
A Madea Halloween at No.
6 with $2.1 million, Geostorm at No.
7 with $1.5 million, Blade Runner 2049 at No.
8 with $1.4 million, Happy Death Day at No.
9 with $1.3 million and Lady Bird at No.
10 with $1.25 million.
Nov. 12 (UPI) -- Country music star Carrie Underwood broke her wrist and suffered cuts and abrasions when she fell on the steps outside her home this weekend.
The 34-year-old singer's representative confirmed the Friday night mishap to The Tennessean newspaper.
The publicist said Underwood was treated at a nearby hospital and released, however the Grammy winner will not be performing at Sunday night's Country Rising benefit concert in Nashville as planned due to her injuries.
"Thanks so much for all the well wishes everybody...I'll be alright...might just take some time...glad I've got the best hubby in the world to take care of me," Underwood tweeted Sunday.
Underwood hosted the CMA Awards show last Wednesday.
She is married to retired hockey player Mike Fisher and is the mother of their 2-year-old son Isaiah.
Nov. 12 (UPI) -- Those born on this date are under the sign of Scorpio.
They include: -- Women's suffrage activist Elizabeth Cady Stanton in 1815 -- Baha'u'llah (born Mirza Husayn Ali), founder-prophet of the Baha'i faith, in 1817 -- U.S. Supreme Court Justice Harry Blackmun in 1908 -- Princess Grace of Monaco (former American movie star Grace Kelly), in 1929 -- Cult leader Charles Manson in 1934 (age 83) -- Actor and playwright Wallace Shawn in 1943 (age 74) -- Sportscaster Al Michaels in 1944 (age 73) -- Rock and Roll Hall of Fame member Booker T. Jones in 1944 (age 73) -- Rock and Roll Hall of Fame member Neil Young in 1945 (age 72) -- Iranian President Hassan Rouhani in 1948 (age 69) -- Actor Megan Mullally in 1958 (age 59) -- Olympic gymnast Nadia Comaneci in 1961 (age 56) -- Writer Naomi Wolf in 1962 (age 55) -- Former baseball slugger Sammy Sosa in 1968 (age 49) -- Olympic figure skater Tonya Harding in 1970 (age 47) -- Actor Tamala Jones in 1974 (age 43) -- Actor Ashley Williams in 1978 (age 39) -- Actor Cote de Pablo in 1979 (age 38) -- Actor Ryan Gosling in 1980 (age 37) -- Actor Anne Hathaway in 1982 (age 35)
BERLIN (Reuters) - Three upended buses, a reminder of a barricade erected in Aleppo in 2015 at the height of the Syrian civil war, appeared in front of the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin on Friday as part of an installation by Syrian-German artist Manaf Halbouni.
The exhibit drew protests by far-right activists when it was shown in the east German city of Dresden last February.
Demonstrators said it belittled the memory of the citys own devastating bombing during World War Two.
Halbouni said the exhibit, which evoked a scene from 2015 when Syrian rebels sought to protect Aleppo from government snipers, was meant to send a message of unity.
It was installed a day after the anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989.
The Brandenburg Gate is a symbol of destruction and of the end of war.
It was also a symbol of division, but then came to represent unity, Halbouni told Reuters TV.
Thousands of jubilant Germans climbed on top of the Berlin Wall near the 18th-century gate after the wall fell in November 1989, reclaiming what was a no-mans land during the years of division between the former Communist east and West Germany.
An installation "Monument" by German-Syrian artist Manaf Halbouni stands in front the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin, Germany, November 10, 2017.
The installation, previously displayed in Dresden, displays three upended buses to mimic a defensive barricade erected in Aleppo, in Syria, to protect people from sniper fire.
REUTERS/Fabrizio Bensch Entitled Monument, the red and white buses stand just one block from the Holocaust memorial, a somber reminder of the millions killed during the Nazi regime of World War Two.
This is an installation against war and against all that is going wrong in this world, the artist said.
Slideshow (12 Images) It is part of the Berliner Herbstsalon, or Autumn Salon, which includes 100 cultural events organized by the Maxim Gorki Theatre across the German capital.
Passersby stopped to eye the 12-metre-high buses.
Its a little bizarre, but ... thats art, said Dieter Krapp, a tourist from the Eifel region in western Germany.
Florian Breitenwieser, a Berliner, said the exhibit was a reminder of the peace and well-being Germany now enjoys.
Aleppo was taken over by the Syrian army in December 2016 after years of fighting with rebels and a siege that forced the rebels to retreat.
(This version of the Nov. 10 story was corrected to show that Craiglockhart is part of Edinburgh Napier University, not Heriot Watt University) Actors Jake Morgan and Sam Ducane extend their hands to catch poppies, as they pose for photographs at the launch of the 1918 Poppy Pledge in a re-creation of a First World War trench at Pollock House in Glasgow, Scotland November 10, 2017.
The actors appeared in the The Wipers Times, a play named after a magazine published by British soldiers in the First World War.
REUTERS/Russell Cheyne By Elisabeth OLeary EDINBURGH (Reuters) - An imposing 19th Century building with elegant manicured lawns and sweeping views of the Edinburgh skyline seems an unlikely place to have earned the nickname Dottyville from one of Britains most revered poets.
But Craiglockhart War Hospital, now part of an Edinburgh Napier University campus on the outskirts of the Scottish capital, was where traumatized souls took refuge from war and where Siegfried Sassoon and Wilfred Owen wrote about their terrifying experiences as part of treatment for shell-shock in 1917.
Their friendship and mutual admiration became the catalyst for some of the most vivid and best-known writing in English about war, playing a big part in changing public perceptions of a patriotic death being a glorious destiny.
This weekend, Britain commemorates its war dead on Remembrance Sunday with the laying of wreaths at official ceremonies up and down the country.
Owen and Sassoon, whose work often features in such ceremonies, were treated for a kind of post-traumatic stress disorder when they were sent to Craiglockhart, a pyschiatric military facility Sassoon affectionately nicknamed Dottyville in a play on the English slang word for mad.
The doctor treating Owen recommended a talking cure, urging him to write to overcome the terror of being blown into the air by a bomb, Catherine Walker, curator of the War Poets Collection housed at Craiglockhart, told Reuters.
His first poems were published anonymously in The Hydra, Craiglockharts in-house magazine, which Owen edited.
Actors Jake Morgan and Sam Ducane pose for photographs at the launch of the 1918 Poppy Pledge in a re-creation of a First World War trench at Pollock House in Glasgow, Scotland November 10, 2017.
The actors appeared in the The Wipers Times, a play named after a magazine published by British soldiers in the First World War.
REUTERS/Russell Cheyne Most of his poems, however, were published posthumously.
Dulce et Decorum est, in which he slates the idea that dying for ones country is an honor, portrays the terror of a soldier dying of gas-poisoning, hearing the blood/Come gargling from the froth-corrupted lungs,/Obscene as cancer.
Owen was the younger of the two writers and worshipped published author Sassoon, who was from a wealthy influential family.
Sassoon edited and encouraged Owen during a convalescence of several months in Scotland.
Slideshow (10 Images) You can certainly see that their poetry tightens up and becomes more powerful while theyre here, said Walker.
Anthem for Doomed Youth was orginally Anthem for Dead Youth and you can see in the original manuscript that Dead is scored out and Doomed is substituted, which was Sassoons influence on Owen.
Sassoon had escaped court martial after writing an open letter, read in Britains parliament, declaring wilful defiance of military authority because I believe that the war is being deliberately prolonged by those who have the power to end it.
Instead he was given leave.
Once at Craiglockhart, a former hotel, he described how it was elaborately cheerful during the day.
In the evenings it became, as Sassoon said, a living museum of war neuroses,' Walker said.
People would hallucinate, have bad dreams, migraines and disturbed sleep and lots of officers stammered and were depressed.
Their friendship and the cures espoused by their psychiatrists helped both to return to the front, driven by a loyalty to the men they fought with, despite their criticism of the war.
Owen died in battle just before the end of World War One, in 1918, aged 25.
Sassoon survived the war and died aged 80.
A permanent exhibition now allows visitors to view the War Poets Collection, offering a glimpse into the minds and experiences of the poets, patients and medical staff at Craiglockhart through documents, photographs and memorabilia.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - A sculpture of a baby sleeping in an unusual New York City exhibit has Park Avenue window-shoppers alerting auction house staff that a child has been forgotten in the display.
Sculpted after artist Duane Hansons son, the lifelike artwork, titled Baby in a Carriage, 1983, is valued at about $80,000 to $120,000, according to director of American art at Heritage Auctions in Manhattan.
Its the greatest.
If you could watch our footage of this baby in the window, it would crack you up because truly all day, people, women, children, mothers, grandfathers, cops will stop and look at it and wonder truly for a second, or more than a second, is that really a baby?, Director of American art at Heritage Auctions, Aviva Lehmann, told Reuters, adding that this is exactly what Hanson wanted you to think.
The polyvinyl piece of a sleeping toddler wearing a lightlue sweatshirt and matching sweatpants, is topped off with a head of blonde human hair, furthering its authenticity.
Thats art?
a stunned Rachel Leeds said with a laugh.
I thought that was a real baby.
The babys shirt carries the bible verse, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast the first stone, from the Gospel of John 8:7.
Artist Duane Hanson's sculpture titled "Baby in a Carriage, 1983," valued at about $80,000 to $120,000, is seen in the Park Avenue window of Heritage Auctions in New York City, New York, U.S., November 10, 2017.
REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton Hanson, a Minnesota native, is often depicted as a hyper realist artist.
Hes been grouped with the pop artists, but hes just all about capturing middle America, whether its a cop or a security guard or a tourist sitting on a bench in the sun, Lehmann said.
Artist Duane Hanson's sculpture titled "Baby in a Carriage, 1983," valued at about $80,000 to $120,000, is seen in the Park Avenue window of Heritage Auctions in New York City, New York, U.S., November 10, 2017.
REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton As the afternoon wound down, the scuplture continued to confuse midtown Manhattan.
I passed by it a few minutes ago on my way to a store and then on my way back I took a better look at it, said onlooker Sarah Conforti as she snapped a photo of the sculpture.
The baby doesnt look very happy.
Passerby Rahmel Dantzler expressed having a similar reaction to the sculpture.
Kinda creepy, Dantzler said.
Id run.
Baby in Carriage will hit the auction block on Nov. 30.
LONDON (Reuters) - One of Britains most celebrated dancer-choreographers, Akram Khan, is tackling the rise of xenophobia in his latest work, which he says will be his last as a leading performer.
The production, Xenos, is Khans tribute to the Indian soldiers of the British Empire who fought in World War One.
It focuses on the story of a shell-shocked Indian soldier, but also tackles contemporary political issues.
Xenos means a foreigner or alien or stranger in Greek, i.e.
xenophobia, and it just seems apt and relevant to my reflection of the world today and how xenophobia is growing, he told Reuters.
Khan, 43, will dance a segment from Xenos at the opening night of the Darbar Festival, an annual festival of classical Indian music, on Thursday in London.
British choreographer Akram Khan (R) and French actress Juliette Binoche perform during their contemporary piece "IN-I" in Abu Dhabi January 28, 2009 as part of their global tour.
REUTERS/Jumana El Heloueh Following its full premiere next year in Athens, Xenos will tour Australia, North America, and Europe, with a staging at Sadlers Wells theater in London in 2018.
Born in London to Bangladeshi parents, Khan was awarded an MBE in 2005 for services to dance.
His style is a hybrid of Indian classical, traditional Indian kathak and contemporary dance.
Khan says he is going to step down from dancing in full-length productions as a lead, but will still dance smaller roles.
Besides wanting a respite from physical demands of dancing, he wants to focus on other areas.
I want to focus more on choreography.
Im working a lot on film.
Im fascinated by film and that medium and what movement, how you can tell stories through the camera, he says.
There just came a time where I felt: OK, enough is enough.
You know, Ill keep training but not to the severity or the intensity that I do to prepare myself for a full-length solo.
LONDON (Reuters) - In an age where a real-estate salesman has assumed the highest political office in the United States, a new revival of David Mamets Pulitzer Prize-winning Glengarry Glen Ross in London is highlighting the dark side of the art of the deal.
The play, which first premiered in Londons National theater in 1983, charts two days in the life of a group of desperate Chicago real estate salesmen and chronicles the moral compromises they are willing to make in order to make a sale.
For director Sam Yates, whose London revival stars Hollywood actor Christian Slater, the play is an examination of how language is used to control people -- which Yates thinks hits home in the current political climate.
We have a president in the United States who cut his teeth selling real estate in the 80s, the director told Reuters.
The way language is used by these guys in the play, theres certainly many, many echoes with how you see Trump buying for time or covering up hugely lack of understanding or pushing something or selling something.
Actor Christian Slater arrives at the 22nd Annual Critics' Choice Awards in Santa Monica, California, U.S., December 11, 2016.
REUTERS/Danny Moloshok The 1992 film version featured a bravura monologue of sinister masculinity from Alec Baldwin, who won an Emmy this year for his menacing Trump impersonation.
The workplace bullying on display in the play also strikes a chord at a time when Hollywood is experiencing its own scandals of sexual harassment and abuse.
Kevin Spacey, who played an abusive boss in the Glengarry film, was fired last week by Netflix from its hit show House of Cards after a number of allegations of sexual misconduct.
Slater, who is returning to the London stage more than a decade after an acclaimed run in One Flew Over the Cuckoos Nest, told Reuters that for too long Hollywood has been sweeping so many things under the carpet and living with these hush-hush little secrets, that everybody kind of knows about but doesnt really want to do anything about.
That era has to come to an end, women and men have to feel comfortable in the workplace, and in every place, he said.
And this sort of behavior of taking advantage and manipulating people, thats over.
ABU DHABI (Reuters) - Abu Dhabi opens its Louvre museum on Saturday, positioning itself as a city of cultural tourism with a display of hundreds of works that it hopes will draw visitors from around the world.
People are seen at the Louvre Abu Dhabi in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, November 6, 2017.
REUTERS/Satish Kumar Surrounded by water from three sides, the museum houses 600 artworks it has acquired, alongside 300 works on loan from 13 leading French institutions, in its 23 permanent galleries.
The artists range from Paul Gauguin and Vincent Van Gogh to Pablo Picasso and Cy Twombly.
French President Emmanuel Macron will be the guest of honor at the opening, along with other heads of state.
It is a lot more than just a museum.
It is a center of peace, acceptance, tolerance and education, Mohamed al-Mubarak, chairman of the department of culture and tourism in Abu Dhabi, told Reuters.
Permanent installations include a sculpture by Auguste Rodin, an enormous bronze tree with mirrored branches called leaves of light by Italian artist Giuseppe Penone and three engravings on stone walls bearing historic texts from the region by Jenny Holzer, an American neo-conceptual artist.
And there are priceless pieces.
They include a statue of the Sphinx dating back to the 6th century B.C., 13 fragments of a frieze that reveals Surah al Hashr from the Holy Quran and a marble bust of Alexander the Great.
People are seen at the Louvre Abu Dhabi in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, November 6, 2017.
REUTERS/Satish Kumar Among the paintings is one by Leonardo DaVinci, done between 1495 and 1499 and called La Belle Ferronniere, or Portrait of an Unknown Woman, which was recently restored and is on loan from the original Musee du Louvre in Paris.
The Abu Dhabi museum was set up under a 2007 inter-governmental agreement between Paris and Abu Dhabi.
Originally slated to open in 2012, it was delayed by the global financial crisis and then by low oil prices, which led the United Arab Emirates to rein in spending.
Slideshow (13 Images) Louvre Abu Dhabi has partnered with museums and cultural institutions in the Arab world, who will lend 28 significant works.
Among them are an 8,000-year-old, two-headed figure called the Ain Ghazal statue from Jordan, some 400 silver dirham coins from Oman and a pre-historic stone tool from Saudi Arabia.
Having invested over $1 billion in the museum, Abu Dhabi is hoping culture will attract tourists.
Two more museums, Guggenheim Abu Dhabi and Zayed National Museum, are planned around the Louvre Abu Dhabi in the Saadiyat Cultural District that already hosts art fairs, exhibitions and performances.
Culture is the element that will distinguish us from others, said Saif Saeed Ghobash, director-general of the emirates Department of Culture & Tourism.
We will attract a different kind of traveler.
The entrance ticket to the museum is 60 dirhams ($16.30) with all 5,000 tickets sold out for the opening day.
SYDNEY (Reuters) - A 17th century map of Australia, predating British settlement, has gone on display for the first time after suffering extensive damage while purportedly housed for hundreds of years in a Swedish warehouse.
A supplied image taken on July 4, 2017 shows the restored version of a rare 17th-century map, coined the "birth certificate of New Holland" and created by Joan Blaeu, chief cartographer for the Dutch East India Company in 1663, that documents Australia prior to the arrival of the British.
Australian National Library/Handout via REUTERS The map, which was once so fragile restoration experts refrained from even breathing on it, is one of just two known wall maps of Australia to have survived the 350 years since being created during the period of Dutch exploration and mapping.
The map is known as the Birth certificate of New Holland and is on display at the National Library of Australia in Canberra.
Created by Joan Blaeu, chief cartographer for the Dutch East India Company, in 1663, the map was displayed briefly in Australia in 2013 when staff did not dare breathe near it lest it crumbled to pieces.
National Library of Australia manager of preservation Denyl Cloughley said it took two and a half years to restore, including the removal of varnish which had corroded into a brown crust and was literally eating away at the paper.
It now gives us a good idea of what it would have looked like as it originally did as you might see in the background of a Vermeer painting, Cloughley said, referring to the 17th-century Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer.
A supplied image taken on May 23, 2013 shows the unrestored version of a rare 17th-century map, coined the "birth certificate of New Holland" and created by Joan Blaeu, chief cartographer for the Dutch East India Company in 1663, that documents Australia prior to the arrival of the British.
Australian National Library/Handout via REUTERS The hanging map was bought by the Australian library in Canberra in 2013.
The library said in a statement that the map was found in a Swedish warehouse in 2010 after it was thought to have spent most of its life stored away and forgotten.
It includes details of the first sighting of Australias southern island of Tasmania by the crew of Dutch explorer Abel Tasman in 1642.
A reduced version of the map was used by Captain James Cook, who claimed Australia for the British empire when he reached the east coast almost 130 years later.
It is the first time Australia appears out of the ocean and as the focal point of a large map, said Martin Woods, curator of maps at the National Library of Australia.
The map, officially called Archipelagus Orientalis, is constructed of nine individual copper plates, with letter-pressed text on the outside telling the story of Tasmans voyages.
(The story is refiled to make clear in paragraph 3 that name refers to map, not display.)
BUDAPEST (Reuters) - Paintings created by an Indian elephant who enjoys wielding a brush were auctioned off by a Hungarian traveling circus on Saturday.
Sandra, a 42-year-old elephant, paints with her trunk in a Hungarian travelling circus of Florian Richter Circus in Budapest, Hungary November 2, 2017.
Picture taken November 2, 2017.
REUTERS/Laszlo Balogh Three of 42-year-old elephant Sandras abstract canvasses, with colored lines flowing across them resembling rivers, fetched about 40,000 forints ($150) each.
A painting depicting Sandra herself, done by a Hungarian painter, sold for 260,000 forints.
The money will be offered to an elephant sanctuary in Malaysia.
Sandra paints with her trunk purely for pleasure, according to her owner and trainer Florian Richter, a horse acrobat and circus director.
Sandra, a 42-year-old elephant, poses for a photo with Hungarian circus fans who bought her painting in the Florian Richter Circus in Budapest, Hungary November 4, 2017.
REUTERS/Laszlo Balogh NO RESALES.
NO ARCHIVES Sandra, who was already well practised in a circus trick involving a shaving brush, was given a paintbrush and she quickly adapted her skills to the canvas.
Richter said that unlike many elephants in Thailand that are thought to be forced to paint, Sandra does it by herself when she is in the mood.
Slideshow (2 Images) I only help her with changing the brushes and putting them into paints but she does the rest by herself more or less.
I praise her by saying oh this is really good, or not so good, Richter said.
We have been together for 40 years so this is a family connection.
Sandra arrived as a baby elephant at the circus where Richter grew up, as a seventh generation member of an acrobat family.
($1 = 267.5200 forints)
BERLIN (Reuters) - Some 250 art works from a huge trove hoarded by a collector during the Nazi era went on display in Germany for the first time on Thursday, as its curators pursue efforts to find the rightful owners of pieces identified as looted.
German art dealer Hildebrand Gurlitt built up the collection after being enlisted by the Nazis to sell modern art they had seized from German museums and collectors and labeled degenerate.
His son Cornelius inherited the collection, which includes works by Pablo Picasso and Henri Matisse as well as older masterpieces, and kept it in his Munich apartment for decades.
Gurlitt bequeathed the 1,500 works to Switzerlands Kunstmuseum Bern, which inherited them after his death in May 2014.
The marble sculpture "Crouching Woman" (1882) of French artist Auguste Rodin is seen during a media preview of the "Gurlitt: Status Report - Nazi Art Theft and its Consequences" exhibition at the Bundeskunsthalle in Bonn, Germany, November 2, 2017.
REUTERS/Wolfgang Rattay The collection is now being displayed simultaneously in Bern and in Germanys former capital Bonn, with part of the latter exhibition focusing on works stolen from individual collectors.
The display at the German Federal Gallery includes works by Claude Monet, Max Beckmann, Albrecht Duerer and Pieter Brueghel, whose works are presented alongside biographies of people from whom the Nazis stole art.
Slideshow (6 Images) At least two works on display have been confirmed as looted and attempts to identify their original owners are ongoing.
In total, there are six which were clearly identified as looted art.
Many works are still being investigated and they might also turn out to be looted, Rein Wolfs, the exhibition curator, told Reuters Television.
Germanys Culture Minister Monika Guetters said the government had allocated 6.5 million euros ($7.6 million) to researching the original owners identities.
BETHLEHEM, West Bank (Reuters) - British street artist Banksy has offered a royal apology engraved on Israels barrier in the occupied West Bank for Britains endorsement a century ago of the establishment of a Jewish homeland in Palestine.
The work was unveiled on the eve of Thursdays centenary of the Balfour Declaration at a mock tea party for Palestinian children at the artists Walled Off hotel that opened last march in the town of Bethlehem.
Israel views the document, issued in 1917 by British foreign minister Arthur Balfour, as having opened the way for its creation in 1948.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu flew to London to attend a celebratory banquet with British leaders.
Palestinian have demanded Britain apologize for a declaration they see as having led to dispossession and suffering.
It has refused to do so.
FILE PHOTO: A person, dressed as Britain's Queen Elizabeth II, gestures during an event ahead of the anniversary of the Balfour Declaration, outside Banksys Walled Off Hotel in the West Bank city of Bethlehem November 1, 2017.
REUTERS/Mussa Qawasma/File Photo Er ...
Sorry, read the inscription, a double entendre, on the gray Israeli-built wall.
ER, standing for Elizabeth Regina, with the Roman numerals II between the two letters, is Queen Elizabeths royal cipher.
The point was hammered home at the event by having an actor dressed as the monarch pulling back a red curtain that covered the etching.
A statement issued by Banksy said the work was commissioned from a professional stone carver whose previous credits include Buckingham Palace and Westminster Abbey.
FILE PHOTO: A person, dressed as Britain's Queen Elizabeth II, gestures during an event ahead of the anniversary of the Balfour Declaration, outside Banksys Walled Off Hotel in the West Bank city of Bethlehem November 1, 2017.
REUTERS/Mussa Qawasma This conflict has brought so much suffering to people on all sides, it didnt feel appropriate to celebrate the British role in it, the statement said.
Banksy, whose real name is not known, has described his guesthouse as having the worst view of any hotel in the world: every room overlooks a walled section of the Israeli barrier that cuts through the West Bank.
Palestinians see the barrier as a symbol of oppression.
Israel says it is a bulwark against Palestinian attack.
(Reuters) - Amazon.com Inc has bought the global television rights to The Lord of the Rings, the company said on Monday, in what may be its biggest and most expensive move yet to draw viewers to its streaming and shopping club Prime.
The Amazon TV button on a remote control is shown in this photo illustration.
Picture taken November 10, 2017 REUTERS/Mike Blake Amazon said it will produce a multi-season series that explores new storylines preceding author J.R.R.
Tolkiens The Fellowship of the Ring, the first installment in the famed fantasy trilogy.
Three movies made of the trilogy in the early 2000s, filmed in New Zealand by director Peter Jackson, garnered nearly $3 billion at the box office and 17 Academy Awards.
Amazon acquired the rights from the Tolkien Estate and Trust but did not say how much it paid for them.
The estate, HarperCollins and the films distributor New Line Cinema will help Amazon produce the television series.
The project underscores a shift in Amazons video programming.
Its studio started in 2010 with a focus on unique shows beloved by critics, such as Transparent, about a father coming out as transgender to his family.
That was a winning formula for attracting Hollywood talent, awards and buzz, though not Prime subscribers around the world.
Now, Amazon is looking for a dramatic show that could be a hit globally, much like HBOs popular fantasy series Game of Thrones.
It is going head to head with Netflix Inc, Hulu and others to bid for top content.
This puts Amazon in uncharted territory, with higher production costs expected.
Amazon justifies its spending on programming as a way to draw new sign-ups to Prime, whose members buy more goods more often from the worlds largest online retailer.
Amazon Prime heads to Middle Earth, Chief Executive Jeff Bezos said in a Twitter post.
Although The Lord of the Rings is the most famous work to emerge from Tolkiens pen, he wrote much else, including prequel The Hobbit - also made into a movie trilogy by Jackson - and the denser The Silmarillion.
The Amazon series will delve into some of Tolkiens work that the movies did not explore.
Amazon is committed to producing super high quality, recognized, branded entertainment, said Wedbush Securities industry analyst Michael Pachter.
Thats a departure from shows like Transparent and Catastrophe.
By definition this will be expensive, he added.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Sam Smiths The Thrill of it All scored the British singers first No.
1 spot on the Billboard 200 album chart, edging out new releases by Maroon 5 and Blake Shelton, according to data from Nielsen SoundScan on Monday, FILE PHOTO: Singer Sam Smith arrives at the Vanity Fair Oscar Party in Beverly Hills, California February 28, 2016.
REUTERS/Danny Moloshok Taylor Swifts latest single, Call It What You Want, led the digital songs chart, which measures online singles sales, with some 67,000 units sold.
Swifts Reputation album sold more than 717,000 copies on Friday, its first day of release, according to BuzzAngle Music data, and is expected to debut at the top of the Billboard 200 chart next week.
Smiths The Thrill of it All sold more than 237,000 units in its first week to debut as No.
1 on the Billboard 200.
Billboard said it was Smiths best sales week ever in the United States.
The Billboard 200 chart tallies units from album sales, song sales (10 songs equal one album) and streaming activity (1,500 streams equal one album).
Maroon 5s Red Pill Blues album took the No.
2 spot with sales of some 122,000 units for the week, while country singer Sheltons Texoma Shore debuted in fourth place.
The new releases sent last weeks chart topper, country star Kenny Chesneys Live in No Shoes Nation, down to sixth place.
Rapper Chris Browns Heartbreak on a Full Moon retained its No.
3 spot, while Without Warning, the collaboration between rappers 21 Savages, Offset and producer Metro Boomin, slipped one place to No.
5.
(Reuters) - Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc on Monday denied allegations by actor Jeremy Jordan that eating at one of its restaurants landed him in the hospital.
Cast member Jeremy Jordan attends the premiere of "The Last Five Years" in Los Angeles February 11, 2015.
REUTERS/Phil McCarten Jordan, who plays Winn Schott on TV show Supergirl, posted an Instagram video on Thursday of himself on a hospital bed, saying that food he ate at a Chipotle made him severely sick and that he almost died, according to a People.com report.
There have been no other reported claims of illness at the restaurant where (Jordan) dined.
We take all claims seriously, but we cant confirm any link to Chipotle, given the details he shared with us, Chipotle spokesman Chris Arnold said via email.
Chipotle is still recovering from a string of food safety lapses that started in late 2015, including a recent norovirus outbreak at a Virginia restaurant.
Jordan, through a spokesman, declined further comment.
The Denver-based burrito chains stock has fallen about 60 percent since an E. coli outbreak in 2015.
Shares of Chipotle fell as much as 6 percent to a near five-year low of $263.11 on Monday morning, but recouped most losses by afternoon.
The stock closed down 0.7 percent.
DUBLIN (Reuters) - Irish musician and activist Bob Geldof called Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi a hand maiden to genocide on Monday as he returned his Freedom of the City of Dublin award in protest over his fellow recipients response to the repression of Rohingya Muslims.
I dont want to be on a very select roll of wonderful people with a killer, Geldof told state broadcaster RTE.
Someone who is at best a handmaiden to genocide and an accomplice to murder.
More than 600,000 Muslims from Myanmars Rakhine state have fled to refugee camps in Bangladesh after military operations described by the United Nations as ethnic cleansing.
Their plight has drawn outrage around the world.
But Suu Kyi, long seen as a champion of human rights, has been criticized for failing to speak out against violence.
There have been calls for her to be stripped of the Nobel Peace Prize she won in 1991.
Suu Kyi was given the Freedom of Dublin in 1999 while she was held under house arrest by Mayanmars then military government.
She received her award at a reception in Ireland in 2012, two years after her release.
Her association with our city shames us all and we should have no truck with it, even by default.
We honored her, now she appals and shames us, Geldof said in a statement.
The Lord Mayor of Dublin, Micheal Mac Donncha, said the city council had discussed taking away the honor and the matter was still under review.
Last month she was stripped of a similar honor by the British university city of Oxford, where she was an undergraduate.
Bob Geldof arrives to return his 'Freedom of the City of Dublin' with Oonagh Casey of Dublin's City Manager's office, after saying he could not continue to hold the honour with Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi, in Dublin, Ireland, November 13, 2107.
REUTERS/Clodagh Kilcoyne But Mac Donncha, a councillor for the Irish nationalist Sinn Fein party, also criticized Geldofs gesture, saying it was ironic as Geldof held a British knighthood despite the shameful record of British imperialism across the globe.
The former Boomtown Rats singer was given an honorary knighted in 1986 in recognition of his charity work, including organizing the 1985 Live Aid concert to help those suffering from starvation and disease in Ethiopia.
Slideshow (3 Images) Other foreign recipients of the Freedom of Dublin include John F. Kennedy, Nelson Mandela and Mikhail Gorbachev.
Irish rockers U2, who had campaigned for Suu Kyis release while she was a political prisoner, also voiced disappointment and said her silence was starting to look a lot like assent.
Who could have predicted that if more than 600,000 people were fleeing from a brutal army for fear of their lives, the woman who many of us believed would have the clearest and loudest voice on the crisis would go quiet, the band said in a statement.
For these atrocities against the Rohingya people to be happening on her watch blows our minds and breaks our hearts.
The Myanmar military says it launched the crackdown in response to attacks by Rohingya militants.
SEOUL (Reuters) - A South Korean actress is promoting cosmetics on Chinas biggest online mall, in a subtle sign of easing diplomatic tension that has seen once-ubiquitous South Korean celebrities vanish from Chinese marketing campaigns.
South Korean actress Jun Ji-hyun looks at a tablet as she arrives at the 50th Baeksang Arts Awards in Seoul May 27, 2014.
The arts awards is an awards ceremony for the television and film industry in South Korea.
REUTERS/Kim Hong-Ji Jun Ji-hyun, who has played the lead roles in hit movies and dramas such as 2013s My Love from the Star, featured prominently on Monday on the product page of health goods maker Mentholatum on Alibaba Group Holding Ltds Taobao.com.
Juns appearance comes toward the end of a year in which South Koreas entertainment industry suffered a drop in Chinese demand for South Korean cultural exports.
The drop came as Beijing objected to Seouls use of a U.S. anti-missile system, prompting popular anti-South Korean sentiment in China.
South Korean celebrities soon reported being unable to attend promotional events and having work visa applications delayed, officials at South Korean talent agencies told Reuters.
Chinese TV ads featuring South Korean celebrities were suddenly dropped and new ones aired with Chinese celebrities, said a director of a South Korean talent agency, declining to be identified due to the sensitivity of the matter.
Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang, at a regular briefing on Monday, said he was not aware of any restrictions on South Korean cultural exports, and that China will work hard with South Korea to promote the early return to the correct and healthy track of bilateral exchanges and cooperation.
Mentholatums Asia-Pacific headquarters did not have an immediate comment.
Alibaba could not be immediately reached.
In late October, Beijing and Seoul agreed to move beyond their year-long stand-off over the missile issue.
We havent seen any immediate tangible change, but we hope the agreement will have a positive impact on future cultural exchange, South Korean entertainment and media firm CJ E&M Corp told Reuters.
The impact of the stand-off has been deep.
K-Pop agency YG Entertainment Inc has not scheduled any concerts in China since July 2016.
In its most recent earnings report, it said July-September operating profit fell 88 percent.
Peer S.M.
Entertainment Co has also not scheduled a concert in China since September 2016.
Its latest earnings showed a 61 percent profit drop for January-June.
But analysts expect the agreement ending the stand-off to see earnings at entertainment firms begin to recover from as soon as early 2018.
Reflecting that expectation, shares of CJ E&M rose 5.6 percent on Monday, while S.M.
was up 3.9 percent and YG was 6.1 percent higher.
The benchmark Kospi index fell 0.5 percent.
LONDON (Reuters) - Canadian pop singer Shawn Mendes led the pack at the MTV Europe Music awards on Sunday night, taking home Best Song, Best Artist, and Biggest Fans awards, in a show that featured performances from French Montana, The Killers and Kesha.
British R&B singer Rita Ora performed the hosting duties, as well as a mashup of her 2017 hit Your Song, alongside her new single Anywhere.
U.S. rap star Eminem opened the show with a performance of his new song Walk on Water, with Skylar Grey standing in for Beyonce to sing the other part in the duet.
The Detroit rapper also took the award for Best Hip Hop, an honor which he appeared to find slightly baffling.
Im not really sure how I got this, cause I havent had an album out in a few years he quipped in his acceptance speech, adding I got one coming though.
Look What You Made Me Do, singer Taylor Swift had been the most-nominated star of the evening, with six nominations, but failed to win any awards.
Canadian singer Shawn Mendes poses with his awards during the 2017 MTV Europe Music Awards at Wembley Arena in London, Britain November 12, 2017.
REUTERS//Hannah McKay Mendes performed Theres Nothing Holdin Me Back, the winner of Best Song.
Some big names from film and television were on hand to lend Hollywood sparkle to proceedings, including Game of Thrones star Natalie Dormer and Oscar winner Jared Leto, also the front man of the band Thirty Seconds to Mars that took home the award for Best Alternative act.
Slideshow (13 Images) Irish rockers U2 were presented with a Global Icon award, in recognition of their decades at the top of the music industry.
The band played a concert at an MTV event in Londons Trafalgar Square the previous evening, footage of which was shown in lieu of a performance.
Other winners included Camila Cabello, who took the Best Pop, and rapper Kendrick Lamar won Best Video for Humble.
Notable performances included local London grime star Stormzy, who took to the stage poking out of the sunroof of a police car, and Travis Scott, who entered standing atop what looked like a floating hawk.
Security was tight at the event, with airport-style scanners at entrances, following a series of attacks that have hit the U.K. this year, including a suicide bomb attack at an Arianna Grande concert in Manchester in May, which left 22 people dead.
LOS ANGELES (Variety.com) - Showing plenty of staying power, Disney-Marvels Thor: Ragnarok is dominating the North American box office with $56.6 million at 4,080 locations in its second weekend.
The figure give the third Thor movie the 29th highest second weekend of all time and the fifth best of 2017.
It also took in nearly the combined total of the two new titles -- Paramounts family comedy Daddys Home 2, with $30 million from 3,575 sites and Foxs mystery Murder on the Orient Express with $28.2 million at 3,341 venues.
Thor: Ragnarok, starring Chris Hemsworth and directed by Taika Waititi, declined 54% from its $122.7 million opening last weekend and is already the ninth highest domestic grosser of 2017 with $211.6 million in its first 10 days.
Its also been a stellar international performer with $438 million in less than three weeks -- topping $650 million worldwide.
On Nov. 8, Thor: Ragnarok became the 12th consecutive Marvel Cinematic Universe film to top $500 million worldwide.
The movie has reversed a box office slump that persisted through October and left 2017s overall domestic moviegoing down 5% from last year at $9.14 billion as of Sunday.
With Warner Bros. Justice League opening next weekend, Disney-Pixars Coco on Nov. 22 and Star Wars: The Last Jedi launching on Dec. 15, the industry is now poised to end the year on an upbeat note.
The overall weekend totaled about $148 million, down 6% from the same frame in 2016, according to comScore.
Now it will take the dream team of Justice League, Coco and of course The Last Jedi and a host of other films big and small to rally the industry toward a year end total that could rival last years record $11.4 billion, said Paul Dergarabedian, senior media analyst at comScore.
The clock is ticking and theres not a lot of time left on the calendar to make up the difference.
World Premiere of Thor: Ragnarok Los Angeles, California, U.S., 11/10/2017 - (L-R) Jeff Goldblum, Tessa Thompson, Taika Waititi, Chris Hemsworth, Cate Blanchett, Tom Hiddleston and Mark Ruffalo.
REUTERS/Mario Anzuoni Daddys Home 2 is performing at the high end of recent forecasts and is finishing about 23% below the originals $38.7 million opening in 2015.
Mark Wahlberg and Will Ferrell reprise their roles as fathers co-parenting the children of Wahlbergs character who struggle to cope when their fathers, played by Mel Gibson and John Lithgow, arrive during the holiday season.
The film carries a $70 million budget.
The original went on to gross $150 million domestically.
Paramounts distribution president Kyle Davies pointed to an A- CinemaScore as an indication that the Daddys Home 2 is resonating with all demographics -- and should perform well in coming weeks.
We are well-positioned heading into the holiday season with a movie for audiences from 8 to 80, he added.
Murder on the Orient Express has also launched above expectations.
Kenneth Branagh stars as detective Hercule Poirot in the latest adaptation of Agatha Christies story of a murder mystery on a luxury train in the 1930s.
The cast has plenty of star power with Johnny Depp, Josh Gad, Michelle Pfeiffer, Penelope Cruz, Willem Dafoe, Hamiltons Leslie Odom Jr., and Star Wars: The Force Awakens actress Daisy Ridley.
World Premiere of Thor: Ragnarok Los Angeles, California, U.S., 11/10/2017 - Chris Hemsworth and Cate Blanchett.
REUTERS/Mario Anzuoni Murder on the Orient Express, which has a $55 million budget, also pulled in $45.8 million in 25,903 international screens, lifting its overseas total to $57.2 million.
STXfilms A Bad Moms Christmas finished fourth with $11.5 million at 3,615 locations in its second weekend, showing impressive holding power with a decline of only 31%.
The film has grossed nearly $40 million in its first 12 days.
A24s expansion of Greta Gerwigs Lady Bird cracked the top 10 with $1.2 million on 37 screens for an impressive $33,776 per screen average.
The comedy-drama posted the best 2017 platform opening last weekend with $364,437 at four sites.
Fox Searchlights platform release of Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri, starring Frances McDormand and Woody Harrelson, opened with a strong $320,000 at four locations.
McDormand plays a small town mother taking on the local police force after her daughters rape and murder goes uninvestigated for several months.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Putting aside the sexual harassment scandal for a night, the stars of Hollywood came out on Saturday to celebrate the work of actor Donald Sutherland and four other filmmakers awarded honorary Oscars.
9TH Governors Awards Show Los Angeles, California, U.S., 11/11/2017 - (L-R) Agnes Varda, Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu, Owen Roizman, Charles Burnett and Donald Sutherland pose with their Governors Awards.
REUTERS/Mario Anzuoni Sutherland, 82, has appeared in more than 140 films including The Dirty Dozen, MASH and Dont Look Now and is familiar to a younger generation for the Hunger Games franchise, but had never won an Oscar.
This is very important to me, to my family, Sutherland said at the annual Governors Awards, where Oscar statuettes are awarded to celebrate a persons body of work over a career.
I wish I could say thank you to the characters Ive played, thank them for informing my life, he added.
Hunger Games star Jennifer Lawrence, said Sutherlands work is movie magic at its best.
Angelina Jolie introduced Belgian-born director Agnes Varda, 89, awarded an honorary Oscar for a career that began in the New Wave of the 1950s and 60s and whose films include La Pointe Courte, Cleo from 5 to 7 and Vagabond.
The two women had an impromptu dance on stage.
I got many awards, Varda said.
Here in the Mecca of cinema, Hollywood, Ive received the best one.
9TH Governors Awards Show Los Angeles, California, U.S., 11/11/2017 - Actress Jessica Chastain speaks on stage.
REUTERS/Mario Anzuoni This event was attended by stars including Dustin Hoffman, Jake Gyllenhaal, Emma Stone, Colin Farrell, Tom Hanks and Steven Spielberg.
African-American director Charles Burnett, whose films include To Sleep With Anger starring Danny Glover, and The Glass Shield featuring Ice Cube, used his acceptance speech to talk of the challenges he faced to tell stories about his community.
Slideshow (7 Images) It was incumbent on us to tell our story, our humanity in our way ... using film as a means for social change, he said.
Mexican filmmaker Alejandro Inarritu, who won Oscars for Birdman and The Revenant was awarded for his virtual reality film Carne y Arena which puts the viewer in the shoes of migrants as they try to cross the U.S. border.
He dedicated his honorary Oscar to immigrants whose reality has been ignored and held hostage by ideologies and definitions, denying them the possibility of being understood and loved.
Hoffman introduced cinematographer Owen Roizman, with whom he worked on Tootsie and Straight Time, saying: Its his combination of insight and versatility and craft that make Owen Roizman special.
Roizman, who garnered five Oscar nominations for his cinematography but had never won, thanked all the collaborators he had worked with.
This night means so much to me, he said.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Hundreds of people marched in the heart of Hollywood on Sunday to support victims of sexual assault and harassment, inspired by a social media campaign that has portrayed such abuse as a pervasive feature of American life.
Ada Kennedy, 7, looks up at her mother as they participate in a protest march for survivors of sexual assault and their supporters in Hollywood, Los Angeles.
REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson The #MeToo march and rally followed a relentless series of accusations by men and women who said they were victimized by high-powered figures in the entertainment industry.
But marchers said they also represented men and women who had been sexually abused as children and in other situations.
Ive been sexually assaulted multiple times throughout my life, said marcher Tara McNamarra, 21, of Los Angeles.
Its affected me in every aspect of my life.
She said the march was cleansing after years of not being taken seriously about having been abused.
Women made up a majority of the crowd, although men made a strong showing of support.
Steven Murphy, 51, of Los Angeles, said he regularly witnessed sexual harassment while working as an accountant in the healthcare industry.
Ive had personal experiences of friends, of co-workers who were harassed, and nothing ever came of it, Murphy said.
They were made out to be the guilty ones.
They were pressured and harassed by the company for speaking out against assault and sexual harassment in the workplace.
People participate in a protest march for survivors of sexual assault and their supporters in Hollywood, Los Angeles, California U.S. November 12, 2017.
REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson The marchers started at the corner of Hollywood Boulevard and Highland Avenue, walking along the noted Walk of Fame until they reached the Los Angeles headquarters of news network CNN at Sunset and Cahuenga Boulevards.
Along the way, participants noted the stars of actors and producers accused of sexual harassment.
Slideshow (13 Images) The allegations have inspired an online campaign, tagged #MeToo, that has encouraged men and women in all walks of life to reveal their own experiences with sexual harassment and assault, often years after they occurred.
Among the most recent allegations, five women detailed sexual misconduct accusations against Emmy-winning comedian Louis C.K.
in The New York Times on Thursday.
He admitted to the misconduct alleged against him in a statement on Friday and apologized for his actions.
More than 50 women have said that Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein sexually harassed or assaulted them over the past three decades.
Weinstein has denied having non-consensual sex with anyone.
Reuters has been unable to independently confirm any of the allegations.
Earlier this month, actor Kevin Spacey apologized to actor Anthony Rapp, who had accused him of trying to seduce him in 1986 when Rapp was 14.
Spaceys representatives said later he was seeking treatment.
Eight current and former employees of the Netflix TV show House of Cards, who were not identified, also have accused Spacey, the star of the show, of sexual misconduct, CNN has reported.
MOSCOW/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Kremlin-backed television station RT America registered Monday with the U.S. Department of Justice as a foreign agent in the United States, the outlets editor in chief said and the Department of Justice confirmed later in the day.
Margarita Simonyan, editor-in-chief of Russian broadcaster RT, meets with journalists, with the Cathedral of Christ the Saviour seen in the background, in Moscow, Russia, October 17, 2016.
REUTERS/Maxim Shemetov U.S. intelligence agencies said in a report in January that the television station, which broadcasts on cable in the United States, is Russias state-run propaganda machine and that it contributed to the Kremlins campaign to interfere with last years presidential election in favor of Republican Party candidate Donald Trump.
After that report, the Department of Justice insisted that RT America comply with registration requirements under the Foreign Agent Registration Act (FARA).
Under the act, RT will be required to disclose financial information.
Moscow has repeatedly denied the allegations of election meddling and said it views the actions against RT as an unfriendly act.
But RTs editor in chief, Margarita Simonyan, said on Monday that it would comply with the demand in order to avoid further legal action by the U.S. government.
Between a criminal case and registration, we chose the latter.
We congratulate American freedom of speech and all those who still believe in it, Simonyan said on Twitter.
The Department of Justice confirmed that it received a registration from T&R Productions LLC, which has operated studios for RT, hired and paid U.S.-based employees and produced English-language programming.
Americans have a right to know who is acting in the United States to influence the U.S. government or public on behalf of foreign principals, said acting Assistant Attorney General Dana Boente.
In October, Twitter announced it would no longer allow advertisements from RT and another Kremlin-backed news organization, citing intelligence that the television station participated in efforts to influence the election.
FARA requires foreign governments, political parties and the lobbyists and public relations firms they hire in the United States to register with the Department of Justice.
FARA was first passed in 1938 in the lead up to World War Two in an effort to combat German propaganda efforts.
Foreign government-owned news organizations, including China Daily, the English-language newspaper owned by Chinas government, register under FARA.
The law applies to companies that are owned or controlled by foreign governments.
The United States and Russia are engaged in a back-and-forth over foreign agent registration.
Russias parliament warned on Friday that some U.S. and other foreign media could also be declared foreign agents in response to the actions against RT, requiring them to regularly declare full details of their funds, financing and staffing.
U.S. government-sponsored Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty (RFE/RL), CNN and Germanys Deutsche Welle could all be affected by the retaliatory measures, a senior Russian lawmaker said earlier on Monday.
While traveling in Asia, Trump touted the relationship between himself and Russia and posted on Twitter that improved relations with the country would a good thing, not a bad thing.
(CNN) After its Emmy breakthrough with "The Handmaid's Tale," Hulu's profile is on the rise.
But its two latest series, the Seth Rogen-produced sci-fi comedy "Future Man" and teen serial "Marvel's Runaways," are both middling, narrowly appealing genre fare, more notable for their auspices than the execution.
Playful and silly, "Future Man" recycles the oldest of premises: A 20-something slacker, Josh Futturman ("The Hunger Games'" Josh Hutcherson), discovers that the unbeatable video game he's mastered is actually a test placed in our time by denizens from the future, identifying him as the one person with the skills to save the world. "
allowfullscreen> As the stunned Josh notes wryly when confronted with this scenario, it's virtually the same plot as "The Last Starfighter," a movie that came and went rather quickly in 1984, but has gained a cult following since then.
The main point of departure, thanks to the juvenile influence of Rogen (who directed the premiere with collaborator Evan Goldberg), involves upping the ante on blue humor.
That includes the fact that Josh -- by day a janitor in a research lab -- has spent his time lusting after (a euphemism, that) videogame-heroine-come-to-life Tiger (Eliza Coupe), who, like her partner Wolf (Derek Wilson), tends to take almost everything literally and responds to most situations by wanting to kill something.
The show has its amusing moments, and features a solid cast, with Keith David as the lab chief, and Ed Begley Jr. and the late Glenne Headly -- who died in June -- as Josh's parents.
Read More
(CNN) Amazon is going to Middle Earth.
The streaming service on Monday announced it is bringing J.R.R.
Tolkien's fantasy epic to television, with a multiple season commitment.
The television series will take place before the 2001 feature film "The Fellowship of the Ring," which kicked off the trilogy directed by Peter Jackson.
Amazon said in a release the deal includes potential for spin-off series as well.
Read More
(CNN) Kim Kardashian celebrated the impending arrival of her third child with a baby shower on Saturday.
Kardashian-West, who is expecting her child via surrogate with husband Kanye West, has yet to reveal the gender.
But fans immediately began to comment on social media that she was not-so-subtly dropping hints with the abundance of pink party decorations.
The queen of reality TV gave fans a glimpse inside the soiree, which was held at her Bel Air mansion in California.
"Okay guys, this is my baby shower for baby number three," Kim said in a Snapchat video.
"It is a beautiful tea and cherry blossom forest."
Baby Shower # 3 #kimkardashian A post shared by Kim Kardashian Snapchats (@kimksnapchats) on Nov 11, 2017 at 9:35pm PST Baby Shower # 3 Deco #kimkardashian A post shared by Kim Kardashian Snapchats (@kimksnapchats) on Nov 11, 2017 at 10:58pm PST Matriarch and manager Kris Jenner was in attendance and appeared to be mingling or giving a toast in a Snapchat video.
Read More
(CNN) Warner Bros. Television Group has sidelined a prominent television producer and writer amid allegations of sexual harassment.
The company says it is investigating accusations against Andrew Kreisberg, who co-created several of The CW's hit comic book shows: "The Flash," "Supergirl," "Arrow" and "DC's Legends of Tomorrow."
"We take all allegations of misconduct extremely seriously, and are committed to creating a safe working environment for our employees and everyone involved in our productions," the television group said in a statement to CNN.
(Warner Bros., like CNN, is owned by Time Warner.)
The suspension was reported late Friday by Variety .
The magazine also detailed several allegations made by 19 sources, none of whom were named in the story.
Read More
(CNN) "Star Trek" star and LBGT icon George Takei is denying allegations that he groped a former male model who says he passed out while drinking at the actor's Los Angeles condo nearly 40 years ago.
Takei, 80, became the latest celebrity to be accused of sexual assault, after a former actor and model named Scott R. Brunton alleged in an interview with the Hollywood Reporter that Takei groped him and tried to remove his underwear one night in 1981.
Takei's agent told CNN on Saturday that the actor was traveling and unable to respond.
Takei is best know for his role as Sulu, the helmsman of the USS Enterprise on Star Trek.
But the man best known for his role as Mr. Sulu, the helmsman of the USS Enterprise on Star Trek, said in a series of tweets that he is "shocked and bewildered" by the allegations and that the "events (Brunton) describes back in the 1980s simply did not occur."
Friends, I'm writing to respond to the accusations made by Scott R. Bruton.
I want to assure you all that I am as shocked and bewildered at these claims as you must feel reading them.
/1 "But I do take these claims very seriously," wrote Takei, who said he does not remember Brunton.
"Right now it is a he said / he said situation, over alleged events nearly 40 years ago.
But those that know me understand that non-consensual acts are so antithetical to my values and my practices, the very idea that someone would accuse me of this is quite personally painful."
Right now it is a he said / he said situation, over alleged events nearly 40 years ago.
But those that know me understand that non-consensual acts are so antithetical to my values and my practices, the very idea that someone would accuse me of this is quite personally painful.
/4 George Takei (@GeorgeTakei) November 11, 2017 Brunton, now 60, told CNN on Saturday that the alleged assault occurred when he was 23 and Takei was in his 40s.
Brunton said he was with his boyfriend at a Los Angeles gay bar when he first met the actor.
"I heard this voice and I don't know if you've ever heard George Takei speak, but he has a booming voice and his laugh was familiar," he recalled.
"I looked through the crowd and told my boyfriend, 'Look that's Sulu.'"
The trio exchanged numbers and occasionally hung out, Brunton said.
After breaking up with his boyfriend, Brunton said he went to dinner and a theater with Takei.
"It was totally platonic," he said of that night.
"I thought it was cool that he thought enough of me to give me a sympathetic ear.
I had no interest in him and he knew that, or he should have.
He was so not my type.
He was 20 years older than me."
The night ended at Takei's condo, Brunton said.
He remembered thinking it was corny that the actor served him a drink in a Star Trek glass.
"I had a second drink and then I started to feel terrible, and I stood up and said, 'Oh my God, I'm going to pass out,''' he recalled.
Brunton said the actor guided him over to a yellow bean bag chair.
"The next thing I remember is waking up," the former model said.
"He is on top of me and has my pants pulled down around my ankles and his hands are trying to get my underwear off.
I said, 'What are you doing?
I don't want this.'
He says, 'You need to relax.
I'm just trying to make you comfortable ... And I said, 'No, I don't want this.'
I pushed him off and said I was going."
Brunton said he left the condo and sat in his car in shock.
He did not go to the police but eventually told many friends about the incident, which he said prompted him to leave Los Angeles for Portland, Oregon.
Brunton said he saw Takei again at a 1994 book signing in Portland and that the actor remembered him.
He said he wanted to confront Takei about the alleged assault, but there were too many people there.
Instead, Brunton said Takei signed a copy of his book for him and slipped him his Los Angeles address.
Brunton said he decided to tell his story after Takei publicly criticized Kevin Spacey for allegedly making a sexual advance toward actor Anthony Rapp when both of them were working on Broadway in 1986.
Rapp was 14 at the time and Spacey was 26.
"When he started in on Kevin Spacey, I thought, 'Oh my God, the hypocrisy,'" he said.
"This is the classic case of the pot calling the kettle black.
I realize all that George has done for the LGBTQ community and how he is a pillar of our community but, as you know, people have dark sides."
The former model said he was amused that Takei doesn't remember him after their numerous encounters.
"He gave me two drinks laced with something and he can't remember that?"
Brunton asked.
"I understand why he is not owning up to it.
I was hoping other people who he may have done this too also would come forward.
I was hoping he would do a full Louis C.K.
and ... admit it, but I guess not."
(CNN) Through the night, for many nights, Martin Scorsese sat ensconced in an edit suite.
It was 1981 and the director was in post-production for "The King of Comedy," his dark satire of the stand-up circuit.
As he worked, a TV in the background pulsed with the sounds of Nass El Ghiwane, a Moroccan band and the subject of "Trances," a concert movie by Ahmed El Maanouni.
Over and over, night after night, the same channel repeated its broadcast, the film's hypnotic rhythms seeping into the New Yorker's soul.
"It's been an obsession of mine," Scorsese has said .
In the years since, he hunted down the band's music, heaped praise on El Maanouni and in 2007 orchestrated a full restoration of the film.
Scorsese is part of a generation that includes George Lucas and Francis Ford Coppola: titans of Hollywood who gorged on a diet of foreign cinema.
Its influence is telling.
Just as the samurai films of Akira Kurosawa filtered down into "Star Wars," Ingmar Bergman's picaresque narratives find a companion in "Apocalypse Now."
For Scorsese, African cinema comprised part of his vernacular.
"Trances" was an inspiration behind 1988's "The Last Temptation of Christ," and elsewhere the director has described the "incredible impact" of "La Noire De..." ("Black Girl," 1966) by Ousmane Sembene.
First watched in 1969, the Senegalese movie "was unlike anything that I'd ever seen," he recalled .
"It was like a door had opened in the West and it was the first time we could feel a truly African voice in the cinema."
Scorsese took note, but not many heard this African voice, or its contemporaries -- particularly in Africa itself.
Part of the problem is distribution, another is politics, say advocates.
The result is a generation of cinematic giants left in slumber, and vital pieces of cultural heritage missing.
Now, an international effort including Scorsese is aiming to revive these figures -- and revise what we thought we knew about African cinema.
Lost, missing or hidden away Scorsese established The Film Foundation in 1990, a nonprofit dedicated to preserving and protecting historic cinema.
A decade ago it launched the World Cinema Project , focusing on films outside the Western canon.
It was around then that Scorsese took a trip to West Africa.
"In 2007, I visited my friend (the director) Souleymane Cisse in Mali," he told CNN.
"Our discussions during that trip highlighted for me the urgent need to preserve African films, many of which are not known or even available, leaving a chasm in our understanding of world cinema."
The project has sought to fill this chasm, but so far African films remain outliers.
Of over 750 restorations overseen by the foundation, only seven were from the continent at the beginning of 2017.
That dynamic is changing, however.
Photos: In pictures: Classic African cinema Want to delve in to African cinema, but don't know where to start?
Aboubakar Sanogo, film scholar and regional secretary of the Pan African Federation of Filmmakers, is here to help.
Here he introduces six gems restored by The Film Foundation... "La Noire De..." ("Black Girl," 1966), dir.
Ousmane Sembene The arrival of "Black Girl" not only announced the emergence of one of the great talents of world cinema, but also inaugurated the spread of the global influence of African cinema beyond the continent's shores.
Sembene's way of filming (lead character) Diouana, Senegal, Africa would go on to create cinematic vocations and emulations across the world including infiltrating Hollywood's own backyard through its influence on the Los Angeles Rebellion school of filmmakers, including Charles Burnett, who paid homage to the film in his own brilliant first feature, "Killer of Sheep."
Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: In pictures: Classic African cinema "Al Momia" ("The Night of Counting the Years," 1969) dir.
Shadi Abdel Salam Alongside Jean Vigo in France, Mohamed Zinet in Algeria and of course Djibril Diop Mambety in Senegal, Shadi Abdel Salam belongs among the exclusive club of cinematic geniuses who are renowned for making very few films.
With its gorgeous colors, delicate costume design and sumptuous mis en scene, in other words, its quasi-mathematical adequation of theme and form, Abdel Salam's monumental "Al Momia" disembalms time and sanctions the drive to invest value in the past, to preserve it, to be literate about it in order to transmit it to generations to come.
An absolute must-see.
Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: In pictures: Classic African cinema "Alyam, Alyam" ("Oh the Days," 1978), dir.
Ahmed El Maanouni An offering by Casablanca-born Moroccan film director, writer, director of photography, and producer, Ahmed El Maanouni, Alyam Alyam is a master class in non-western filmmaking.
Breaking down the shot-reverse shot grammar, interspersing live action with still images to move the story forward and breaking down the continuity style, creating deeply poetic images of the ordinary, the film is an invitation to awaken our senses to other ways of making films.
Its haunting final shot makes the gravity of the decision to leave the home for the elsewhere intensely and acutely felt, with all the pain and loss of separation and the uncertainties about the tomorrows yet to come.
Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: In pictures: Classic African cinema "Touki Bouki" (1973), dir.
Djibril Diop Mambety In African cinema, there are names that resonate like charms.
They have something of a talismanic overtone to them.
Djibril Diop Mambety is one of them.
Mambety's films resonate more with surrealism, with the kingdom of dreams, with the realms of madness and excess, in other words, the spaces that push boundaries and approach art and life from original and unusual points of view.
To put is schematically, Mambety's cinema eschews prose for poetry, classicism for experimentalism, wisdom for rebellion.
With "Touki Bouki," one of cinema's genuine poets offers us a love letter on the beauty and unbounded possibilities of youth Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: In pictures: Classic African cinema "Borom Sarret" ("The Wagoner," 1963), dir.
Ousmane Sembene As Ousmane Sembene's first major film, "Borom Sarret" represents many of his cinematic themes.
At once an in-depth meditation on the limitations of the postcolonial African state, a lucid assessment of the first years of African independence, an uncompromising critique of the ruling class, and an unparalleled way of tracing of the emergence of homo modernus Africanus.
"Borom Sarret" is a compassionate, empathetic yet highly disciplined and rigorous film.
Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: In pictures: Classic African cinema "Soleil O" ("Oh, Sun!," 1970) dir.
Med Hondo Med Hondo is one of the founding figures of African cinema who, together with Ousmane Sembene and others, very much personified the political and ethical compass in the aesthetic project of African cinema.
"Soleil O" is a bold proposition about cinema; what it can be and what its relationship to our lives ought to be.
It is at once an affective, effective and reflexive cinema, a manifesto against calculated and deadly indifference.
It is a work several decades ahead of its time.
Hide Caption 6 of 6 In June, the foundation, UNESCO and the Pan African Federation of Filmmakers, known as FEPACI , in collaboration with Cineteca di Bologna , signed an agreement formalizing the African Film Heritage Project, or AFHP.
The initiative "will locate and preserve 50 African films, and make them available to audiences in Africa and around the world," Scorsese explains.
Laboratory workers at Cineteca di Bologna restore film in June, 2015.
It's a daunting task, agree all involved.
Some of the films identified for restoration are, for all intents and purposes, lost.
"If you Google search some of these titles nothing comes up," says Margaret Bodde, executive director of the Film Foundation.
"There's no kind of writing about these films."
Very rarely were film negatives developed in Africa in the 1960s and '70s, with most taken to laboratories in Europe or the United States.
"Sometimes documentation is lost or never existed," says Cecilia Cenciarelli, a curator at Cineteca di Bologna.
It can take years of phone calls and emails to find a negative or 35 millimeter print.
Often assets are incomplete and scattered, she adds, recalling a Soviet-era title where one reel was found in Cuba and the others in the former East Germany.
"The Eloquent Peasant" ("Shakavi El Flash el Fasi," 1969), directed by Shadi Abdel Salam, was restored in 2010 as part of the World Cinema Project.
Each restoration costs anywhere from $100,000-250,000 according to Bodde, which is expensive for a nonprofit.
Negotiating access is an additional issue, says Aboubakar Sanogo, lecturer and North American regional secretary of FEPACI.
"I won't name the filmmaker, but one entity in Britain has been storing the films of an African filmmaker since the 1960s," Sanogo says as an example.
"He's a filmmaker we're interested in working on.
That entity just said '...well you have to pay about 100,000 ($132,000).'"
"This is completely unethical as far as I'm concerned, but these are some of the difficulties that we are going to be facing in the next decade."
'So important yet so unknown' The first fruits of the project came to light in May when "Soleil O" ("Oh, Sun," 1970) screened at the Cannes Film Festival under the Cannes Classics sidebar.
The debut feature by Mauritanian director Med Hondo "depicts issues that are still relevant today," says Scorsese, describing to CNN "a powerful film about a young man who emigrates from West Africa to France in search of a better life.
Instead he finds racism, hostility and hypocrisy."
"It's a deeply personal film, based so entirely on Med Hondo's own experience," says Bodde.
He's typical of the directors the project is targeting.
Lauded in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, the spiritual home of African cinema, Hondo, now 81 years old, is "so important yet so unknown," says Cenciarelli.
(His most-seen work has been as a voice actor in dubbed versions of "Shrek" and the "Star Wars" prequels.)
"(Restoring "Soleil O") seems a good way to start this project, by honoring a filmmaker who's still alive, (who) contributed in a less classic way -- a more avant-garde way -- to building big chapters of (a) cultural revolution for Africa," she says.
Robert Liensol as Jean, the protagonist of "Soleil O" ("Oh, Sun!," 1970), the directorial debut of Mauritanian Medo Hondo.
Five more films have been earmarked for restoration, but the foundation is only now revealing the first two titles: "Le Vent des Aures" ("The Wind of the Aures," 1967) by Algerian Mohammed Lakhdar-Hamina, and "La Femme au Couteau" ("Woman with the Knife," 1969) by Ivorian Timite Bassori.
Both will be the first titles from their countries restored through the foundation.
UNESCO director-general Irina Bokova.
"Restoration and preservation is really only half the battle," said Scorsese in February.
"African films need to be seen by the audiences they were intended for: the African people."
The aim is for the five films to screen at FESPACO in 2019, when Africa's biggest film festival in Ouagadougou celebrates its 50th anniversary.
But the festival circuit can only reach so far.
"We want as many people to be exposed," says Irina Bokova, director-general of UNESCO.
"It's very important ... to work with African media, television providers, owners of cinemas, theaters, to show these films."
"We won't be dogmatic," Sanogo adds.
Despite plans to create 35 millimeter prints, he describes the format as "dead," outlining DVD, Blu-ray and streaming options for future releases.
Children watch a documentary on the fringes of FESPACO in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, 2005.
UNESCO will include AFHP titles as part of its Memory of the World Program and the General History of Africa, the latter "a giant project that UNESCO started in 1964 in order to deconstruct the false premises and prejudices attributed towards African history," Bokova says.
Some of these have arguably been formed or perpetuated in movie theaters.
"From the beginning, African filmmakers were using cinema as a means to raise awareness about its past, about the aspirations of their people, about their histories, but also educating them to meet the challenges of newly found independence," says the UNESCO director-general.
But many films were left to gather dust far from home.
Meanwhile, Sanogo speaks of a period of cultural neo-colonialism when "Hollywood used to dump their films on African countries," undercutting homegrown productions with lower distribution costs.
The absence of these self-determining African voices has left a void, and an opportunity for non-African filmmakers to impose a fanciful view of the continent: "a reductive mode of representation that we see in most European and American films, frankly," says Sanogo.
(China has recently shown willingness to imagine Africa as a war-torn playground , too.)
Idris Elba in child soldier drama "Beasts of No Nation" (2015).
The US production was set in an unnamed African country, but passages are spoken in Ghanaian language Twi.
Sanogo believes that if more people -- and filmmakers -- had access to African cinema, such stereotypes would be less pervasive on and off screen.
"We always knew that Hollywood was the best ambassador for the US," he adds.
"We believe the same can be done with African cinema."
Part of the hope is that African filmmakers today will connect with their lost or forgotten cinematic roots.
The slow burn of a Sembene film may be a world away from the cut and thrust of a Nollywood action flick, but there's still a dialogue to be had between past and present.
"Even if you view the films of Med Hondo and you're going to take a completely different approach, that's part of the vernacular," argues Bodde.
"Knowing history is part of the continuum of art."
By reclaiming its cinema, its stories and its history, Africa's filmmakers of tomorrow will be creating from a firmer platform.
"I'm aware, more than ever, that we know very little about African cinema," Scorsese said at the launch of the project.
We're about to find out a lot more.
"Saturday Night Live" did not hold back in taking aim at Roy Moore in the wake of allegations of sexual misconduct against him.
(CNN) Louis C.K.
's movie "I Love You, Daddy" would have been oddly creepy under the best of circumstances.
But the director-star's admission Friday to masturbating in front of women, confirming a New York Times piece about his misconduct, cemented how near-impossible it would be currently to separate the film from reality.
The Orchard, which planned to open the film next week, scrubbed its release on Friday.
The last-minute maneuver followed the project's exposure at the Toronto Film Festival, and came just as "For Your Consideration" screeners went out pitching the movie for awards contention.
Whether "I Love You, Daddy" ever sees the light of day remains an open question, but the distributor seemingly had little choice but to shelve it right now.
The movie's basic premise is a bit like the song "Everyone's a little bit racist" in the musical "Avenue Q," only here, the idea is that when it comes to sex, everyone's perverted in their own way.
The whole exercise takes on a different hue filtered through the prism of Louis C.K.
's confession, after years of rumors about his behavior.
In one especially ill-timed sequence, a comedy star played by Charlie Day furiously mimes masturbating while Louis C.K.
's producer talks on the phone to a popular actress.
Read More
Story highlights The song dropped Friday Fans are eagerly awaiting a new Eminem album (CNN) Beyonc has a song out with one of rap's biggest superstars.
No, not that one.
Rapper Eminem released a single Friday, featuring Beyonc.
"Walk on Water" has Queen Bey singing, "I walk on water/But I ain't no Jesus/I walk on water/But only when it freezes" -- as Eminem spits bars about the pressures of his life and career.
If you listen closely, you can hear the sounds of Eminem writing and ripping up paper in the background.
Read More
(CNN) Longtime gossip columnist Liz Smith, who started her column at the New York Daily News in 1976, has died, according to the newspaper.
She was 94.
Known affectionately as the "the Grand Dame of Dish," Smith's legendary work included a chronicle of Donald and Ivana Trump's divorce, which made front-page news.
Liz Smith at New York City's Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in 2004.
Covering the glitterati Smith's column, which was titled simply "Liz Smith," became a staple in the publication for a quarter century, and was syndicated in almost 70 newspapers.
Smith started her journalism career as a CBS Radio news producer for Mike Wallace, according to the New York Daily News.
Read More
(CNN) Warning: This article contains language some may consider offensive.
Comedian Louis C.K.
has said the sexual misconduct allegations levied against him are true.
He apologized Friday after a bombshell report by the New York Times the day before cited five women who said the comedian engaged in sexual misconduct, including masturbating in front of them.
"These stories are true.
At the time, I said to myself that what I did was okay because I never showed a woman my dick without asking first, which is also true," he wrote.
"But what I learned later in life, too late, is that when you have power over another person, asking them to look at your dick isn't a question.
It's a predicament for them.
The power I had over these women is that they admired me.
And I wielded that power irresponsibly."
Louis C.K.
went on to say that he is "remorseful" and has "tried to learn" from his irresponsible behavior.
Read More
Story highlights There was a great deal of reaction on social media to his statement Some pointed out he never actually said "sorry" (CNN) For most of his career, Louis C.K.
has been known as one of the most self-deprecating comics in the business.
So it should not have been a total shock when the comedian released a lengthy statement of apology Friday following the New York Times story published a day before that included sexual misconduct allegations from five women.
Louis C.K.
did what many celebs have not, however, by admitting guilt.
"These stories are true," Louis C.K.
said in his statement.
Writers for "House of Cards" are trying to resolve the biggest cliffhanger they've ever faced -- the future of their show.
The future of the Netflix series remains up in the air, following a string of allegations against star Kevin Spacey that have resulted in his termination from the series and a halt in production.
Behind the scenes, however, the show's writers are facing a ticking clock as they scrap a Season 6 plan eight months in the making and find a new direction for the show's final season.
Sources close to the production told CNNMoney that it's unlikely the show will be canceled.
In fact, writers are kicking around ideas on how to rewrite the show without its biggest star.
On the British version of "House of Cards," Francis Urquhart, the inspiration for Spacey's Frank Underwood, played by Ian Richardson, was shot and killed in the final installment.
The creative weight rests of the shoulders of Melissa James Gibson and Frank Pugliese, who as showrunners lead the writers' room.
Gibson and Pugliese, who were promoted to their posts after creator Beau Willimon left ahead of Season 5, have not made any public statements about the future of the show.
Related: The end of 'House of Cards' would hammer Baltimore and wipe out 2,000 jobs In a typical writers room, the showrunners would be tasked with arcing out the season, with help and ideas from the rest of the writers.
Different writers are then assigned individual episodes, which are workshopped as a group.
The showrunners have final say on the direction and pacing of the season and episodes.
The decision on whether to proceed with Season 6 after writers find a new direction will rest with Netflix and producer Media Rights Capital, both of which declined to comment for this story.
Netflix suspended production on Season 6 after allegations of sexual harassment and assault were made against Spacey.
He was fired from the show after a subsequent report by CNN that included testimonies from eight current and past production members who accused Spacey of inappropriate behavior on set, including one accusation of sexual assault.
The cast and crew will know by Thanksgiving what the future holds for "House of Cards," a source told CNNMoney.
Staffers are still being paid during the suspension, but they are in limbo until Netflix and Media Right Capital make an official announcement, the source said.
"House of Cards" had been filming in the Baltimore area for about two weeks prior to the production stoppage on October 31.
Cast and crew have a finite amount of time to complete Season 6 due to other contractual obligations, a source said.
In most cases, extending that commitment due to unforeseen delays is not always possible, as most often have other jobs lined up.
Agents for stars Michael Kelly and Robin Wright did not return CNNMoney's request for comment regarding their contracts for "House of Cards."
But another source close to the production told CNNMoney that "House of Cards" was slated to wrap in May before these allegations about Spacey prompted the show to go hiatus.
It is unclear whether that is now subject to change.
There's a lot at stake.
Over 2,000 cast, crew and extras are waiting for a decision that could impact their livelihoods.
"House of Cards," which for five seasons has been filmed in and around Baltimore, is one of the state's biggest productions.
CNN's Lisa France contributed to this report.
(CNN) Actor John Hillerman died of natural causes Thursday at his home in Houston, Texas, his publicist, Lori De Waal, said.
He was 84 years old.
Hillerman was best known for his Emmy Award-winning work in the long-running detective series "Magnum, P.I."
The stage-trained actor first made an impression as arrogant radio show detective Simon Brimmer on the NBC revival of "Ellery Queen" in 1975.
Hillerman then took on notable roles as the boss of Bonnie Franklin on the long-running CBS sitcom "One Day at a Time," and trading sarcastic quips with Betty White in the short-lived sitcom "The Betty White Show" in 1977.
Hillerman's most acclaimed work was in the role of Jonathan Higgins in the popular 1980s detective comedy-drama "Magnum, P.I."
Playing the repressed and paternalistic foil to Tom Selleck's titular character earned Hillerman an Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series in 1987 and a Golden Globe Award that same year.
Hillerman made his film debut in Peter Bogdanovich's "The Last Picture Show" in 1971, before scoring roles in movies such as Bogdanovich's "Paper Moon," Clint Eastwood's "High Plains Drifter," Mel Brooks' "Blazing Saddles," and Roman Polanski's "Chinatown."
Hillerman majored in journalism at the University of Texas and achieved the rank of sergeant during a stint in the Air Force, before moving from Texas to New York City to pursue a career in acting.
Read More
Story highlights Anderson East's Instagram post criticizes Garth Brooks' performance at CMAs Brooks admits to lip-syncing, says his voice just wasn't up to it due to heavy touring (CNN) Garth Brooks has referred to Miranda Lambert as "family," but we suspect things might be bit tense if the folks get together this holiday season.
Lambert's boyfriend, singer-songwriter Anderson East, took to Instagram on Thursday to criticize Brooks' performance at this week's Country Music Association Awards.
Brooks -- named CMA's entertainer of the year for a record sixth time -- caught flak from East for lip-syncing Wednesday night through a performance of his single "Ask Me How I Know."
"I keep a lot of my opinions to myself and respect anyone making music but as a person who tries to put on the best and most honest show I can night after night... this truly offends me," East wrote in a post that included a tweet about Brooks lip-syncing.
"I was told country music is three chords and the truth."
A post shared by Anderson East (@andersoneast) on Nov 9, 2017 at 8:37pm PST East and Lambert went public with their relationship three months after she and ex-husband Blake Shelton announced their split in 2015.
Read More
Story highlights The long-running series is celebrating a milestone Creator Shonda Rhimes says there will be at least 15 seasons (CNN) "Grey's Anatomy" is hitting a milestone, but its creator said she can't promise many more.
The ABC medical drama's 300th episode is set to air Thursday and creator Shonda Rhimes told E!
the show is done once star Ellen Pompeo no longer wants to portray Meredith Grey.
Ellen Pompeo as Dr. Meredith Grey in the 300th episode of "Grey's Anatomy."
"Ellen and I have a pact that I'm going to do the show as long as she's going to do the show," Rhimes said.
"So the show will exist as long as both of us want to do it.
If she wants to stop, we're stopping."
Rhimes said she's not sure the show will make it to 600 episodes "but I want to keep it feeling fresh."
"As long as there are fresh stories to tell and as long as we're both excited about the stories being told, we're in," she said.
"So we'll see where that takes us."
Read More
Story highlights The Oscar-winning actress complains about Grazia UK cover on Instagram and Twitter Magazine apologizes but says it didn't order changes to actress' hair in the photo (CNN) Lupita Nyong'o was excited to be on the cover of Grazia UK magazine.
Until she saw the cover.
The Oscar-winning actress took to social media to accuse the fashion magazine of digitally altering the look of her hair in a cover shot to make it "fit a more Eurocentric notion of what beautiful hair looks like."
She posted before and after pictures on Instagram and Twitter to show how her hair had been changed, along with a statement criticizing the magazine.
"I am disappointed that @graziauk invited me to be on their cover and then edited out and smoothed my hair," she wrote.
"Had I been consulted, I would have explained that I cannot support or condone the omission of what is my native heritage with the intention that they appreciate that there is still a very long way to go to combat the unconscious prejudice against black women's complexion, hair style and texture."
Magazine apologizes Read More
(CNN) Faced with the task of concocting a sequel around the wispiest of comedies, "Daddy's Home 2" doubles down on daddies.
But everything about the process feels strained, laborious and gimmicky, from the casting of Mel Gibson to Will Ferrell's madcap mugging, trying to stuff this holiday-themed stocking enough to achieve feature length.
Two years after the original became an unexpected hit, Ferrell and Mark Wahlberg are back as Brad and Dusty, the stepdad and dad who forged a bond built around a commitment to their kids.
Into that mismatched harmony come their two fathers, Brad's touchy-feely dad Don (John Lithgow) -- who greets him with a wet kiss on the lips -- and Kurt (Gibson), an absentee for much of Dusty's youth, who's all swagger, womanizing and "Back in my day" bravado.
Gibson isn't exactly known for his comedy chops -- his directing efforts have hewed more toward flogging and disembowelments -- and his problematic, controversial past makes his inclusion mostly feel like a cry for attention.
Setting that aside, the venture isn't helped by a script (from John Morris and director Sean Anders, reprising that role) that pretty transparently has Kurt constantly trying to foster discord between Brad and Dusty thanks to his hostility to the whole "co-dad" concept.
While there's some fun in the macho dinosaur-dad concept -- as Kurt pushes back against bowling rails for kids and starts telling the grandchildren a "dead hookers" joke -- Gibson still feels like a distraction, and an odd guy to bear hug in this sort of lightweight vehicle.
Read More
Story highlights Task force will look into any cases referred by law enforcement There are currently no indictments (CNN) The Los Angeles County District Attorney is forming a task force to evaluate sexual assault cases in Hollywood.
"In response to the widespread allegations of sexual abuse in the entertainment industry, I have established a task force of specially trained deputy district attorneys who are ready to evaluate these cases if any are referred to my office for criminal prosecution," Los Angeles County District Attorney Jackie Lacey said in a statement.
"I have assigned the group of veteran sex crimes prosecutors to work together to ensure a uniformed approach to the legal review and possible prosecution of any case that meets both the legal and factual standards for criminal prosecution."
Lacey added that to date, her office has not received any cases from law enforcement for possible criminal filing.
Last month, Los Angles police opened an investigation into Harvey Weinstein after a person came forward with an allegation of sexual assault against the disgraced movie mogul.
Weinstein, through his publicist, has repeatedly denied "any allegations of non-consensual sex."
Read More
Story highlights She announced the news on her Instagram account Mowry and her husband have a 6-year-old son (CNN) Tia Mowry and husband Cory Hardrict are growing their family.
The "Sister, Sister" star recently posted a picture on her official Instagram account showing Hardrict and their 6-year-old son Cree kissing her baby bump.
A post shared by tiamowry (@tiamowry) on Nov 8, 2017 at 10:20am PST The star of Cooking Channel's "Tia Mowry at Home" is also the author of the cookbook "Whole New You: How Real Food Transforms Your Life, for a Healthier, More Gorgeous You."
Mowry, who suffers from from eczema and endometriosis, told Parade she has had great results from changing her diet -- including getting pregnant the first time.
"I was on this detox for a year trying to get pregnant and after this detox, I ended up getting pregnant right away and my doctor said it was because of my diet," she said.
Read More
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
"Star Wars" superfans will get to decamp in a galaxy far, far away for a whole new trilogy.
The saga will continue beyond the current trilogy with three new films helmed by "Star Wars: The Last Jedi" director, Rian Johnson.
"In shepherding this new trilogy, which is separate from the episodic Skywalker saga, Johnson will introduce new characters from a corner of the galaxy that Star Wars lore has never before explored," Disney said in a statement on Thursday.
Lucasfilm president Kathleen Kennedy praised Johnson for being a "creative force, and watching him craft 'The Last Jedi' from start to finish was one of the great joys of my career."
"Rian will do amazing things with the blank canvas of this new trilogy," she added.
Disney did not provide release dates for the films or any further details regarding their plots or titles.
The company also joked that the series' new creatures, Porgs, were not "available for comment."
"We had the time of our lives collaborating with Lucasfilm and Disney on 'The Last Jedi,'" Johnson and his collaborator Ram Bergman, who is serving as producer, said in a statement.
"'Star Wars' is the greatest modern mythology and we feel very lucky to have contributed to it.
We can't wait to continue with this new series of films."
Related: 'Star Wars: The Last Jedi' trailer debuts on 'Monday Night Football' The space series has been one of the popular and successful brands for Disney since they brought it from Lucasfilm in 2012 for $4 billion.
Disney's first "Star Wars" film, 2015's "The Force Awakens" raked in more than $2 billion worldwide, making it one of the biggest box office successes ever.
"Rogue One: A Star Wars Story," the franchise's first spinoff, made more than $1 billion last year.
The next Disney "Star Wars" film, "The Last Jedi," lands in U.S. theaters on December 15.
(CNN) The first trailer for Meryl Streep and Tom Hanks' upcoming movie, "The Post" debuted on "The Late Show With Stephen Colbert" Tuesday night and it is powerful.
Directed by Steven Spielberg, the movie tells the true story of the Washington Post's renowned publisher Kay Graham (Streep), and its editor, Ben Bradlee's (Hanks) decision to publish the highly confidential Pentagon Papers in 1971.
Watch the full trailer here: The Pentagon Papers, which was first exposed to the public by The New York Times, revealed a massive coverup by the United States government over its involvement in the Vietnam War.
This is Streep and Hanks' first time appearing in film project together.
Read More
(CNN) For true-crime TV, lurid details and high-profile stories are often no longer enough.
In the wake of "The Jinx" and "Making a Murderer," networks are not just reheating old cases -- the colder, the better -- but also attempting to solve them.
The main problem with the "Let's try solving this" strain of TV's true-crime wave is that it tends to breed hyperbole and bad habits, ratcheting up pressure to deliver some kind of conclusion, while teasing out and hyperventilating over relatively small details.
This month brings a dizzying deluge of true-crime series and specials, including "Dahmer on Dahmer: A Serial Killer Speaks" (Oxygen's two-part special about the notorious serial killer Jeffrey Dahmer, which dredges up an old Nancy Glass prison interview) and "Cold Blooded: The Clutter Family Murders," a SundanceTV two-parter about the case that Truman Capote chronicled in the book-turned-movie "In Cold Blood."
Yet a separate subgenre focuses on solving -- or sometimes re-litigating -- long-dormant crimes.
A&E will launch "Who Killed Tupac?," a six-part series that features civil-rights attorney Benjamin Crump and a team of investigators seeking to answer the show's central riddle.
(Shakur's brother, Mopreme Shakur, serves as a series consultant.)
History, meanwhile -- having enjoyed surprising success with "Hunting Hitler," which speculated as to whether the Nazi leader might have escaped Germany -- revisits "The Hunt For the Zodiac Killer," using new techniques, like computer code-cracking and DNA, in an effort to solve the serial slayings that occurred in California during the 1960s and early '70s.
A&E, in fact, has plunged into the genre, having presented "The Murder of Laci Peterson" as a multi-part series that sought to cast doubts on the conviction of her husband, Scott Peterson; and scheduling another sensational upcoming title, "The Menendez Murders: Erik Tells All," drafting in part off NBC's limited series.
The network's strategy, in fact, virtually mirrors dedicated true-crime channel Investigation Discovery, which will launch its own serialized docu-series about strange small-town doings in the 1990s, "Village of the Damned," on November 28.
Of all the programs cited, the most engrossing is "Cold Blooded," perhaps because it has more on its mind than the typical who or even why aspects of the crime. "
allowfullscreen> Not only does director Joe Berlinger's documentary recount the grisly details of the 1959 killings that shook the state of Kansas, but the second half examines Capote's writing of the book, gaining the killers' confidence and rather ghoulishly waiting for their execution -- in the face of several stays -- to give his story a genuine ending.
The project also explores the significant toll that "In Cold Blood," and the celebrity that came with it, exacted upon its author, who is shown appearing drunk during a TV interview.
"Truman Capote never survived 'In Cold Blood,'" observes biographer Gerald Clarke.
The promotable nature of the genre has created a feeding frenzy for such material, ranging from familiar stories to more obscure ones.
The latter provided the basis for Netflix's "The Keepers," about a slain nun; and A&E's "The Eleven," about multiple murders of teenage girls in Texas in the 1970s.
SundanceTV will make "Cold Blooded" the centerpiece of a "True Crime Weekend" movie marathon, which includes not only a restored version of "In Cold Blood" but also "Zodiac" and "Summer of Sam."
Throw in the boom for scripted series devoted to salacious cases, a la "The People v. O.J.
Simpson: American Crime Story," and TV looks more determined than ever to prove that crime pays.
And pays and pays.
"Dahmer on Dahmer: A Serial Killer Speaks" premieres Nov. 11 at 7 p.m. on Oxygen.
"The Hunt For the Zodiac Killer" premieres Nov. 14 at 10 p.m. on History.
"Cold Blooded: The Clutter Family Murders" premieres Nov. 18 at 9 p.m. on SundanceTV.
"Who Killed Tupac?"
premieres Nov. 21 at 9 p.m. on A&E.
"Village of the Damned" premieres Nov. 28 at 10 p.m. on Investigation Discovery.
"The Menendez Murders: Erik Tells All" premieres Nov. 30 at 10 p.m. on A&E.
(CNN) The 1974 version of "Murder on the Orient Express" was a time-capsule-worthy artifact of its time, a star-studded affair that brought together the likes of Lauren Bacall, Ingrid Bergman and Sean Connery.
Producer, director and star Kenneth Branagh seeks to replicate those charms in a mildly effective retelling of Agatha Christie's tale, a reasonably well-oiled machine that hits bumps in the latter stages of its journey.
Branagh sports an impressively ornate mustache as Hercule Poirot, the brilliant Belgian detective, who is amusingly introduced unlocking a mystery in Jerusalem.
After that, he's eager for at least a little rest and relaxation when summoned back to Europe, boarding a luxury train as it chugs through the snow-encrusted mountains.
Those plans go rather spectacularly awry, naturally, when Poirot encounters an unctuous dealer named Ratchett (Johnny Depp, painfully hamming it up '30s gangster style), who seeks the detective's protection, having received threatening notes.
Ratchett soon turns up dead, the victim of multiple stab wounds, leaving Poirot working against a deadline to decipher what really happened.
The eclectic roster of passengers leaves him no shortage of suspects, with Michelle Pfeiffer, Judi Dench, Josh Gad, Leslie Odom Jr. ("Hamilton"), Daisy Ridley ("Star Wars: The Force Awakens"), Penelope Cruz, Willem Dafoe and Derek Jacobi among the suspects.
Sifting through impossibly minute clues, the process will eventually test Poirot's views about justice, grinding toward a payoff in which he presents his elaborate theory of the case.
Written by Michael Green, this "Orient Express" makes a few questionable choices, from the distractingly overdone musical score to rushing through the climax in a way that shortchanges the character interactions and blunts the payoff.
Read More
(CNN) In "Last Flag Flying," Steve Carell, Bryan Cranston, and Laurence Fishburne play old friends who come together in the face of tragedy.
When Larry "Doc" Shepherd (Carell) learns his son was killed while serving overseas, he enlists the help of his estranged Vietnam friends to help him retrieve his son's body and take it back to his home for burial.
"I think he honesty of the storytelling is what first drew me to it," Cranston told CNN.
What unravels is an exploration of grief and a timely reminder about the cost of war.
The film opened in theaters the weekend before Veteran's Day.
Read More
Colin Kaepernick is one of the faces of GQ's December issue.
The magazine named the former 49ers quarterback its "Citizen of the Year" for starting the protest that became a movement in the NFL.
"He's been vilified by millions and locked out of the NFL -- all because he took a knee to protest police brutality," GQ wrote in a news release about the cover.
"Colin Kaepernick's determined stand puts him in rare company in sports history: Muhammad Ali, Jackie Robinson -- athletes who risked everything to make a difference."
Kaepernick first knelt during the National Anthem at a preseason game last year to protest mistreatment of black Americans, particularly by police.
The protests grew this year to dozens of other players and to other sports, and President Trump called for the firing of any protesters.
Related: Papa John's says NFL protests are hurting sales Kaepernick has been on the cover of GQ before, but for his athletic skill.
Now he's on the cover because he's not playing.
"And it's not because he's hurt, or because he's broken any rules, or because he's not good enough," GQ said.
"Approximately 90 men are currently employed as quarterbacks in the NFL, as either starters or reserves, and Colin Kaepernick is better -- indisputably, undeniably, flat-out better -- than at least 70 of them."
Kaepernick is not interviewed for the issue but appears in a photo spread.
GQ said he agreed to participate because he wanted to "reclaim the narrative of his protest, which has been hijacked by a president eager to make this moment about himself."
Instead, Kaepernick worked with the magazine to select 10 people, including filmmaker Ava DuVernay and rapper J. Cole, to speak on his behalf.
"I see what he's done as art.
I believe that art is seeing the world that doesn't exist," DuVernay said in the article.
"I think some folks see his protests, his resistance, as not his work.
Not intentional.
Not strategic.
Not as progressive action.
As if this was just a moment that he got caught up in.
This was work.
This is work that he's doing."
Kaepernick said on Twitter that he was "honored to be recognized."
The proposed AT&T-Time Warner deal is hanging in the balance, but another major media merger appears poised for approval -- though not necessarily on schedule.
Sinclair Broadcast Group, the largest owner of local television stations in the country, is bidding to become even bigger with a $3.9 billion acquisition of Tribune Media.
The deal's fate has been the subject of speculation this week, given the government's surprisingly hard line against AT&T's tentative purchase of Time Warner.
The move, which could put the conservative-oriented Sinclair in a position to mount a legitimate challenge to Fox News should it choose to do so, came closer to becoming a reality last month when Tribune shareholders voted resoundingly in favor of the deal.
The Sinclair-Tribune acqusition requires approval from the Federal Communications Commission because of the local stations involved; Time Warner has sold the properties it owned which were subject to FCC oversight and so does not need its approval for its deal.
Related: AT&T chief says he's ready to go to court to get Time Warner deal done There are notable differences between the two mergers, both politically and functionally.
Rule changes at the FCC have paved the way for the type of media consolidation that Sinclair is pursuing, while the company's conservative leanings have endeared it more to the White House than a significant asset in the Time Warner portfolio: CNN.
A day before the Tribune shareholders' vote, the FCC paused its self-imposed 180-day shot clock deadline for review of the deal in order to allow for additional public comment, a common practice.
Regulators for the FCC have asked Sinclair to explain how it intends to meet TV station ownership limits, while the Department of Justice is also reviewing the deal on anti-trust grounds.
But federal approval has been widely expected across the industry.
Spokespeople for the FCC and the Justice Department did not respond to a request for comment.
Launched out of Baltimore in 1971, Sinclair has ballooned into a juggernaut that owns or operates nearly 200 TV stations.
The merger with Tribune would bring that number to 233, making the company the nation's largest broadcaster with a reach of 72% of U.S. households, though Sinclair would need to sell some of those licenses in order to comply with the FCC's nationwide TV ownership limits.
Bolstering the prospects of the deal: a rule change approved by the FCC in April that loosened those same limits.
The media industry has been roiled over the last year with a wave of attempted consolidation.
Along with AT&T and Sinclair, Discovery Communications announced in July that it's acquiring Scripps Network.
Moreover, Disney has reportedly been in talks to buy parts of 21st Century Fox.
On Thursday, AT&T CEO Randall Stephenson suggested that the government's objections to his company's merger may have a chilling effect on deals such as Disney-Fox.
"I suspect a lot of people in the industry are just on pause waiting to see what happens with our deal," Stephenson said at the New York Times DealBook conference.
Sinclair has remained publicly confident that the deal will go through; the company's president and CEO Chris Ripley has said he expects it to close by year's end.
In August, Ripley said the acquisition "will help to ensure the future of the free and local television model for both Tribune and Sinclair's local communities."
Of course, AT&T executives expected their acquisition of Time Warner to be finalized by the end of the year, too.
That merger was dealt a significant blow during a meeting on Monday in which, according to sources familiar with the matter, the Justice Department anti-trust division told AT&T that the sale would only be approved if it sold off DirecTV, which the company bought two years ago, or Turner, which includes channels such as CNN, TNT and TBS.
Those properties account for a significant portion of Time Warner's profits.
Industry experts widely believed that the AT&T-Time Warner deal was on firm legal footing, given that it represents a "vertical merger," meaning that the portfolios of the respective companies are not in competition with one another.
By contrast, a horizontal merger, like Sinclair-Tribune, occurs between two companies in the same market, which can reduce competition.
Makan Delrahim, the Justice Department's newly confirmed antitrust chief, said last year that he didn't see the deal "as a major antitrust problem."
He has apparently changed his mind since then, and was in the meeting during which the DOJ told AT&T that it would have to sell DirecTV or Turner.
Many of the same advocacy groups oppose both the AT&T and Sinclair deals.
Democrats like Sen. Al Franken have been opposed to AT&T's deal, but have also expressed wariness over the prospect of President Trump's meddling.
Some senior Democrats have been vocal critics of the Sinclair-Tribune proposal, too.
Late last month, Democratic Sen. Dick Durbin sent a letter to FCC Chairman Ajit Pai, who was chosen by President Trump, saying that the Sinclair-Tribune merger would "violate many long-standing Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules."
Durbin lamented that the FCC "is now going out of it is (sic) way to clear barriers to the deal by rolling any rule that may pose a problem to it."
If Sinclair succeeds and AT&T's deal is scuttled, it may give the appearance of presidential meddling.
Sinclair stations are required to run segments featuring conservative commentary.
One recurring segment is led by Boris Epshteyn, a former Trump administration official who was hired by Sinclair as an analyst in April.
White House adviser Jared Kushner said last year that the Trump campaign had a deal with Sinclair in order to secure positive coverage.
Trump has spoken out against the AT&T-Time Warner deal, with his objections seemingly centered around the news outlet he attacks perhaps more than any other: CNN.
Some editors and reporters in Alabama are frustrated, and they're not hiding it.
As national Republicans disavow Senate nominee Roy Moore amid allegations of sexual misconduct, Moore and many of his supporters are blaming the media.
Local journalists are receiving complaints and dodging insults while trying to cover the deepening scandal.
"Journalism is often a hard sell in a place where some people defend Moore over four named women and 30 sources," said Bob Davis, the editor of the Anniston Star in the northeast part of the state.
Some readers simply don't want to hear the disturbing charges, which were originally published by the Washington Post last Thursday.
Distrust of the media is a major factor.
Republican voters are "not going to believe this Washington Post story because it's the liberal media lying about their beloved leader here," Alabama political columnist Josh Moon said on CNN's "Reliable Sources."
He said that if the story had originally been published in a local paper, voters would "probably" be more inclined to believe it, "but I don't know that even then," Moon said.
"They believe him first and last," he said.
Many of Moore's defenders have cast suspicion on the story because it came out just a month before the December 12 election.
Over the weekend, Moore claimed, without any evidence, that the story was an "intentional act to stop the campaign."
The Post has been clear about what happened.
According to the paper, reporter Stephanie McCrummen, an Alabama native, stumbled upon the subject "while reporting a story in Alabama about supporters of Moore's Senate campaign."
When McCrummen was told about Moore's alleged behavior, the paper followed up and contacted other women who used to know him.
"All were initially reluctant to speak publicly but chose to do so after multiple interviews, saying they thought it was important for people to know about their interactions with Moore," according to the Post.
"The women say they don't know one another."
Other reporters have confirmed that they had heard rumors about Moore.
"There had been rumors through the years.
And, you know, for a lot of Alabama political reporters, this is going to be the one that got away," Kyle Whitmire, a state political columnist for Alabama Media Group, said on CNN last week.
Still, Moore and his defenders have rallied around the idea that the Post is part of a conspiracy to imperil Moore's candidacy.
Reporters from Atlanta, Washington and New York have flown in to cover the aftermath of the allegations.
Staffers from the right-wing Breitbart News, which supports Moore, have also arrived in the state, reportedly to investigate the accusers named in the story.
"Breitbart aims to discredit Roy Moore's accusers" was the headline on Axios.com on Sunday night.
One of Breitbart's stories, labeled "exclusive," was titled "Mother of Roy Moore Accuser: Washington Post Reporters Convinced My Daughter to Go Public."
The Post, of course, said that the accusers were reluctant to speak, so this story just had the effect of confirming the original account.
But Breitbart's narrative appealed to Moore's ardent supporters.
Tim Lockette, one of Davis's reporters at the Anniston Star, responded via Twitter: "Seeking sources and asking them for comment is not a crime.
It's not misconduct.
Journalism is not shameful.
It keeps this nation free."
The ongoing controversy inspired Davis to publish a column in Sunday's Star: "In defense of journalism."
Several of the state's biggest newspapers and news web sites are owned by the same company, Advance Publications.
Given the ongoing scandal, the umbrella home page on AL.com has a special top section called "Latest on Roy Moore," with half a dozen links to the latest developments.
But to put the coverage in perspective, four of the five most-read stories on AL.com on Monday were about college football.
A version of this column appeared in the "Reliable Sources" newsletter.
Sign up for the newsletter here.
A large swath of right-wing media has sought to discredit or cast doubt on allegations of sexual misconduct facing Republican Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore.
Breitbart, the far-right website headed by former White House chief strategist Steve Bannon, has been the most aggressive in its coverage.
The website has deployed two staffers to Alabama who have attempted to damage the Washington Post's explosive story, which included allegations from four women who went on the record to say Moore initiated inappropriate sexual advances toward them when they were teenagers and he was in his 30s.
The Post story was based on interviews with more than 30 people who said they knew Moore.
In one story, Breitbart spoke with Nancy Wells -- the mother of Leigh Corfman, who accused Moore of initiating a sexual encounter with her when she was 14 years old -- and claimed she contradicted a "key detail" of her daughter's story.
The Post said in its original story that Corfman spoke with Moore "on her phone in her bedroom."
Breitbart asked Wells if Corfman had a phone in her bedroom to which she said no.
Wells, however, then added, "But the phone in the house could get through to her easy."
In another story, Breitbart noted that Wells said her daughter had to be convinced by the Post to speak out about her allegations against Moore.
"She did not go to them.
They called her," Wells told Breitbart.
But the Post had already disclosed this in its story, stressing that "neither Corfman nor any of the woman sought out the Post" and "were initially reluctant to speak publicly."
As Breitbart's critics pointed out on social media, convincing sources to speak on the record is a fundamental part of journalism.
But it hasn't been just Breitbart, whose spokesperson did not respond to a request for comment, that has aimed to cast doubt on the allegations Moore faces.
Sean Hannity, like other conservative media giants, has not taken a hardline position on Moore.
He has said that if the allegations are true, they are "beyond disgusting" and that Moore should step aside, while simultaneously suggesting to his TV and radio audience that the allegations could be a politically motivated hit job.
Case in point: Last Thursday, Hannity invited Fox News legal analyst Mercedes Colwin on his prime time program to discuss the sexual misconduct allegations and asked her a number of leading questions.
"Do people do it for money?
Do they do it for political reasons?"
Hannity asked Colwin.
"Is that more common than people think?"
"Oh definitely," Colwin replied.
Rush Limbaugh, the king of talk radio, called one of the accusers a "wacky woman" on his program, according to a transcript on his website, and read part of a story from a far-right blog -- one he admitted he was "not familiar with" -- which sought to discredit one of the Post's reporters.
Limbaugh said he has "no idea" if the allegations against Moore are true, but focused on arguing a double standard exists when a Republican instead of a Democrat is accused of misconduct.
Mark Levin, a top conservative talk show host, took a similar approach when reacting to the Post's story, saying, it "is impossible to judge the facts" before the election.
He then chose to zero in on the Post's credibility and question the "timing of such a report."
"Are we to believe these Washington Post reporters just happened to hear about this -- they went to Alabama from some of his supporters and now they were just able to draw the truth out of these women -- particularly the former 14 year old who is now 53 years old?
Is that what we are to believe?"
Levin asked on his radio program last week.
"The newspaper that endorsed the Democrat already.
That's what's going on."
Levin was referring to the Post editorial board's endorsement of Moore's Democratic rival.
He, however, failed to note that the newspaper's newsroom functions independently of the editorial board.
Fox News hosts Tucker Carlson and Laura Ingraham have employed more tepid tactics to question the Post's story.
Ingraham said on her Friday radio show that if the allegations are true, they would be "completely unacceptable," but added that she found it "a little curious why [Post owner Jeff Bezos] sends a band of reporters" to Alabama to "find out what happened in 1979."
Carlson said on his Friday television program that the allegations "sound true" to him, but said the Post and media at large has become so untrustworthy that "even when maybe what they're reporting is correct, it's hard to know exactly."
An 85-year-old Norway spruce from Pennsylvania arrived in Manhattan on Saturday.
The tree will be decked out in 45,000 lights at a tree-lighting ceremony later this month.
Adam Kuperstein reports.
What to Know The 75-foot tall, 12-plus ton Norway spruce comes from the home of Jason Perrin in State College, Pennsylvania The tree arrived at the Plaza on Saturday and will be illuminated on live TV in a special on Wednesday, Nov. 29 The first Rockefeller Center Christmas tree was put up in 1931 by workers building the complex during the Great Depression Grab a cup of hot cider and dust off the Christmas cheer, one of the first signs of the holiday season made its gigantic entrance into New York City on Saturday.
The 75-foot-tall Norway spruce arrived by truck in midtown Manhattan early Saturday and was lifted into place by a giant crane to its seat of honor next to the iconic ice rink at Rockefeller Plaza.
See more pictures of the tree's journey here.
The tree, which weighs more than 12 tons, comes from the home of Jason Perrin in State College, Pennsylvania.
It was cut down Thursday morning before a horde of camera-ready spectators.
It is the 86th to grace the Plaza for the annual weeks-long display and the third from Pennsylvania.
"It's amazing, we've seen it just on TV and pictures of it, so to see it stand up is kind of a surreal moment," Darren Dickey, of Vancouver, said.
Erika Pauze, the head gardener for Rockefeller Center, said Thursday that she saw this year's tree while driving nearly seven years ago and was quick to ask if the owner was interested in making his backyard evergreen the most famous Christmas tree in the world.
"It's hard to find a tree that's nice and full that doesn't have any storm damage or is growing crooked or anything," she said.
After being adorned with more than 50,000 multi-colored lights and crowned with the iconic Swarovski star, the tree will be illuminated for the first time during a live television broadcast on Wednesday, Nov. 29.
It'll be on display until Jan. 7, 2018.
Last year's tree, a 94-foot Norway spruce from Angie and Graig Eichler in Oneonta, was the second largest ever chosen for the holiday celebration.
The first Rockefeller Center Christmas tree was put up in 1931 by workers building the complex during the Great Depression.
The first official tree lighting was in 1933.
After the holiday season, the Rockefeller trees are cut into boards and donated to Habitat for Humanity.
Check out the latest photos of your favorite celebrities.
In honor of the recent "Stranger Things 2" premiere, Millie Bobby Brown takes the "Tonight Show" stage to rap a recap.
Video Ellen Pompeo tells Seth Meyers about how she thought every year would be the last year of "Grey's Anatomy."
"I can't believe people aren't sick of me yet," she says as the show celebrates its...
As the Cavaliers prepare to play the Knicks at Madison Square Garden Monday, LeBron James says he's "not a fan of Phil Jackson."
(Published Monday, Nov. 13, 2017) A Monday morning subway ride with a team of NBA players?
Only in New York.
Video posted to the Cavaliers' Twitter account shows LeBron James and his teammates, in town to play the Knicks at Madison Square Garden, hopping on the subway from Penn Station back to their hotel after practice Monday morning.
Former Knick J.R. Smith was among the train-taking contingent.
"We had two options: a 45-minute bus ride or a six-minute train ride, so we decided to hop on the train with the squad," James says in another video.
James and Dwayne Wade managed to grab seats, but their other teammates who had to stand didn't exactly have much clearance in ceiling room.
"We're squishing," James remarks as he films his teammates scrunched over in the subway car.
James said it was his first time riding the subway in New York.
Despite their apparent effort at staying incognito in hoodies, the players didn't exactly blend in.
Eagle-eyed straphangers who noticed them on the train waved and said hello.
But a man seated next to James became irritated when James pointed the camera in selfie mode toward him, and shoved the camera away.
James laughed it off.
New Yorkers, after all, are notoriously hard to impress.
The MTA, for its part, tweeted in response to the video: "Thanks so much for taking the subway Lebron, but the King of this town is @kporzee and we're riding with the Knicks tonight."
Top Sports Photos: Brady and the Patriots Triumph in Denver
Ibtihaj Muhammad, the first U.S. Olympic athlete to compete while wearing a hijab, has inspired other Muslim athletes.
Mekahlo Medina reports for the NBC4 News at 5 p.m. on Monday, Aug. 8, 2016.
It's been quite a run for U.S. Olympian Ibtihaj Muhammad.
In 2016, she became the first American athlete to compete while wearing a Hijab.
Now... she has a doll in her own likeness courtesy of Barbie.
At the Glamour Women of the Year LIVE Summit Monday, Muhammad became the latest honoree as part of Barbie Shero program that recognizes female trailblazers.
Muhammad was presented the doll by last year's Shero, body activist and model, Ashley Graham.
"Through playing with Barbie, I was able to imagine and dream about who I could become," said Ibtihaj Muhammad.
"I love that my relationship with Barbie has come full circle, and now I have my own doll wearing a hijab that the next generation of girls can use to play out their own dreams."
Muhammad, one of Time magazine's "100 Most Influential People" of 2016, became the first female Muslim-American athlete to earn a medal at the Olympics, earning a bronze medal in the Team Sabre.
"Barbie is celebrating Ibtihaj not only for her accolades as an Olympian, but for embracing what makes her stand out," said Sejal Shah Miller, Vice President of Global Marketing for Barbie.
"Ibtihaj is an inspiration to countless girls who never saw themselves represented, and by honoring her story, we hope this doll reminds them that they can be and do anything."
The doll will be available for purchase in 2018.
Former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who ignited a national movement last year after refusing to stand during the national anthem before NFL games, has been named GQ's "Citizen of the Year."
Former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who ignited a national movement last year after refusing to stand during the national anthem before NFL games, has been named GQ's "Citizen of the Year."
The men's magazine wrote that Kaepernick's kneeling in protest of racial inequality and police brutality "changed everything."
"It cost him his job," editors wrote.
"It also transformed Colin Kaepernick into a lightning rod and a powerful symbol of activism and resistance."
Kaepernick took to Twitter on Monday to announce that he was "honored" to be recognized by GQ.
The former signal caller, who opted out of his contract with the 49ers after the 2016-17 season, has yet to sign with a new team.
Last month, Kaepernick filed a grievance against the NFL claiming that he doesn't have a new home in the league due to owner collusion.
Kaepernick may be out of the league, but his protest has not been forgotten.
A number of players this season have continued to kneel, raise fists, sit or outright stay off the field during national anthems this year.
Opponents, including President Donald Trump, believe Kaepernick and other players are disrespecting the nation and the flag by not standing for the anthem.
49ers defensive back Eric Reid, Kaepernick's former teammate, has reiterated that the purpose of the protest is to not disrespect the military, the flag or the anthem itself.
"This is about systemic oppression that has been rampant in this country for decades on top of decades," Reid told NBC Sports Bay Area last month.
"And I will continue to encourage people to educate themselves of how we got to where we are today, because it didnt happen overnight.
Its not going to happen overnight to fix these issues, so were going to keep talking about it.
I know I will keep doing what I feel is necessary to use the platform I have to make those changes."
This cover image released by Big Machine shows art for Taylor Swift's new album, "reputation."
Taylor Swift is coming to a city near year you.
Just days after the release of her sixth album, "reputation," the "Look What You Made Me Do" singer announced tour dates for the North American leg of her Reputation tour.
While tickets go on sale to the general public Wednesday, Dec. 13, fans have the chance to purchase tickets in advance via Ticketmaster's Verified Fan program.
Registration will stay open through Nov. 28.
Additional dates in Australia, Europe and New Zealand will be announced at a later time.
Here is the complete list of tour dates: 'Late Night': Mark Wahlberg's Kids Don't Think He's Cool Mark Wahlberg tells Seth Meyers about how his kids had no interest in attending the premiere of his new movie, "Daddy's Home 2."
The actor says he stopped being cool in their eyes a long time ago.
(Published Friday, Nov. 10, 2017) May 8 University of Phoenix Stadium in Glendale, Arizona May 12 Levi's Stadium in Santa Clara, California May 19 Rose Bowl in Pasadena, California May 22 CenturyLink Field in Seattle, Washington May 25 Sports Authority Field at Mile High in Denver, Colorado June 2 Soldier Field in Chicago, Illinois 'Late Night': A Closer Look at GOP Tax Plan After Losses Seth Meyers takes a closer look at how Republicans are forging ahead with a "Hail Mary" tax cut plan that's widely unpopular in polls and would actually increase taxes on many middle-class families.
(Published Friday, Nov. 10, 2017) June 30 Papa John's Cardinal Stadium in Louisville, Kentucky July 7 Ohio Stadium in Columbus, Ohio July 10 FedEx Field in Washington, D.C. July 14 Lincoln Financial Field in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania July 17 First Energy Stadium in Cleveland, Ohio July 21 MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey Louis C.K.
Film Premiere Scrapped Amid Sexual Misconduct Allegations The cancellation of Louis C.Ks film I Love You, Daddy comes after The New York Times reported that five women accused the comedian of sexual misconduct.
(Published Friday, Nov. 10, 2017) July 28 Gillette Stadium in Foxborough, Massachusetts Aug. 4 Rogers Centre in Toronto, Ontario Aug. 7 Heinz Field in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Aug. 11 Mercedes-Benz Stadium in Atlanta, Georgia Aug. 14 Raymond James Stadium in Tampa, Florida Aug. 18 Hard Rock Stadium in Miami, Florida 'Late Night': Clinton Helps Meyers Tell Jokes He Can't Tell There are some jokes that just sound wrong coming from Seth Meyers, so Hillary Rodham Clinton stops by to help him out.
(Published Thursday, Nov. 9, 2017) Aug. 25 Nissan Stadium in Nashville, Tennessee Aug. 28 Ford Field in Detroit, Michigan Sept. 1 U.S. Bank Stadium in Minneapolis, Minnesota Sept. 8 Arrowhead Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri Sept. 15 Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis, Indiana Sept. 18 The Dome at America's Center in St. Louis, Missouri 'Late Night': Lithgow Went Skinny Dipping During 'Footloose' John Lithgow tells Seth Meyers about the partying he did with costar Dianne Wiest while on the set of the 1984 film, "Footloose."
Lithgow says they "became the wild ones" to compensate being around younger costars like Kevin Bacon and Lori Singer.
One night, Lithgow and Wiest took off their clothes and swam in the pool.
(Published Wednesday, Nov. 8, 2017) Sept. 22 Mercedes-Benz Superdome in New Orleans, Louisiana Sept. 29 NRG Stadium in Houston, Texas Oct. 6 AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Texas Impressively, the singer-songwriter sold 700,000 copies of her album on its first day of release.
Swift recently performed "Call It What You Want" and "...Ready for It?"
on Saturday Night Live.
Swift's last concert series, the 1989 World Tour, ran from May 5, 2015 through Dec. 12, 2015.
Dozens of celebrity guests joined her onstage, including Uzo Aduba, Lily Aldridge, Ciara, Ellen DeGeneres, Jason Derulo, Lena Dunham, Selena Gomez, Ellie Goulding, Gigi Hadid, Mariska Hargitay, Sam Hunt, Mick Jagger, Kendall Jenner, Nick Jonas, Lisa Kudrow, Miranda Lambert, John Legend, Lorde, Alanis Morissette, Hailee Steinfeld, Justin Timberlake and Keith Urban.
Back in April, Trulia put together a round-up of the most expensive homes for sale in America.
A $175 million sprawling waterfront estate in Connecticut cracked the top five.
According to Christie's International Real Estate, which had the original listing, it's no longer available.
We have no idea who coughed up the cash for this incredible property, but take a look at what they got for their money.
Sexual misconduct allegations against Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore were at the forefront of "Saturday Night Live's" cold open, with members of the Trump administration urging him to drop out of the race.
"It's hard to convince people that you're not into young girls when you dress like Woody from 'Toy Story,'" said Vice President Mike Pence, played by Beck Bennett.
The skit highlighted an issue the GOP has grappled with this week, after four women said Moore tried to have sexual or romantic relationships with them decades ago, when they were teenagers and he was in his 30s.
The Washington Post reported that one woman who said he initiated sexual contact with her was 14 years old at the time.
The real Moore has denied the allegations, insisting they are an attempt to derail his bid for a Senate seat.
In an interview with Sean Hannity, though, Moore did not rule out having dated teenage girls.
"All right, if everyone thinks I did it, I'll marry her," said "SNL's" Moore, played by Mikey Day.
"I want you to consider stepping aside," Pence said.
"Don't think of it as ending your campaign, think of it as going to conversion therapy to turn yourself into someone who's no longer a candidate."
Moore begs Pence to figure out another solution, perhaps by calling "the boss," to which Pence says, "Sorry, I'm not going to call Vladimir Putin about this."
Pence leaves Moore to think about dropping out, when Attorney General Jeff Sessions, played by Kate McKinnon, kicks out of a cabinet in the room.
After telling Moore that he "checks a lot of boxes" as a candidate, Sessions kicks him out of the room for being "too Alabama" even for the state native.
Session then seeks advice from "papa," an opossum, on "how to be happy again," and reveals he wants to go back to the senate.
"There's so many men out there acting like monsters, Mr. Weinstein, Kevin Spacey, the president," McKinnon's Sessions says shakily to the opossum.
"Daddy, has this been happening forever?
Have I both fostered and benefited from a culture of systemic oppression?
No?
Well, that's a relief."
In another sketch, "SNL" mocked the Democratic National Convention with a "We're back!"
commercial following the party's election wins this week, particularly in New Jersey and Virginia gubernatorial races.
"This is our time, we're back," the politicians said in an awkward, off-beat ad.
Sen. Chuck Schumer (Alex Moffat), Sen. Dianne Feinstein (Cecily Strong), Sen. Tim Kaine (Mikey Day), Rep. Nancy Pelosi (Kate McKinnon) and former DNC leader Donna Brazile (Leslie Jones) starred in the commercial.
"We learned our lesson from the last election.
We can't just focus on coastal elites," McKinnon's Pelosi said.
"We need mouth breathers from Wisconsin."
The DNC introduced "new blood" to the party, including former Vice President Joe Biden, played by Jason Sudeikis, and Bernie Sanders, played by Larry David.
McKinnon also showed up in the ad as Hillary Clinton and as "not Hillary."
"Weekend Update" kicked off with jabs at President Donald Trump, who is wrapping up a trip in Asia.
"Well it's Veterans Day and Donald Trump celebrated by finally going to Vietnam," co-host Colin Jost quipped.
North Korea called Trump a "lunatic old man" eariler this week, and hours before "SNL" went live, Trump tweeted a mocking response, saying he would "NEVER" call Kim Jong Un "short and fat."
"Now, a lot of times Donald Trump goes way over the line with his tweets, but this time, that was pretty damn funny," co-host Michael Che said.
"I mean look at how vain and catty he is."
Jost noted that it was a "good weekend to stay inside" because of the cold weather but also because "everyone you've ever heard of is a sex monster," on the growing list of men accused of sexual misconduct.
New allegations this week included Moore and comedian Louis C.K.
"I'm not saying he's guilty but his naughty little cowboy outfit screams it," he said about Moore.
Host Tiffany Haddish used her monologue to talk about otherwise taboo topics, from re-wearing her red carpet dress, to sexual assault allegations swarming Hollywood.
"Listen fellas.
Listen.
If you got your thang-thang out and she got all her clothes on, you're WRONG.
You're in the wrong," she said emphatically.
Haddish made history as "SNL's" first black female stand-up comedian to host the show.
Musical guest Taylor Swift performed two songs, "Ready for It?"
and "Call It What You Want."
Disneyland visitors who were at the park between Sept. 12 to Sept. 27 may have come into contact with water carrying the bacteria for Legionnaires' disease.
Jane Yamamoto reports for the NBC4 News at 6 p.m. on Saturday, November 11, 2017.
(Published Saturday, Nov. 11, 2017) Nine people contracted Legionnaires' disease after visiting Disneyland in September, a Disneyland spokesperson confirmed Saturday.
The nine Disneyland cases are among 12 total cases that the Orange County Health Care Agency is investigating regarding people who live in or visited Anaheim in September.
Disneyland was informed of the cases Oct. 27, chemically treating and voluntarily shutting down two cooling towers to rid them of the Legionella bacteria, said Walt Disney Parks and Resorts Chief Medical Officer Pamela Hymel.
Legionnaires' disease is a type of pneumonia with symptoms that include cough, shortness of breath, fever, muscle aches and headaches, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
People can contract the disease by breathing in small droplets of water in the air that contain the Legionella bacteria.
The disease is not contagious from person to person.
Of the 12 cases being investigated, all patients range in age from 52 to 94 years old, said OCHCA Public Information Officer Jessica Good in a statement to NBC 4 News.
Ten of the 12 people were hospitalized.
One person, who did not visit Disneyland, had "additional health issues" and died, Good said.
Three of the patients did not visit Disneyland, but did live or travel in Anaheim, Good said.
After Disney took steps to get rid of the bacteria, the OCHCA "indicated there is no longer any known risk associated with our facilities," Hymel said.
According to the OCHCA, the Legionnaire's disease exposure period ranged from Sept. 12 to Sept. 27, Hymel said, adding that Disney thoroughly reviewed all regular water testing for the resort, "including work performed by contracted third-party experts," and "implemented additional redundant testing of other cooling towers on our property."
The OCHCA has not identified the common exposure source for all the cases, Hymel said.
No additional cases have been identified in Anaheim after September and there is "no known ongoing risk associated with this outbreak," Good said.
Editor's Note: This story has been updated with comments from the Orange County Health Care Agency.
The cancellation of Louis C.Ks film I Love You, Daddy comes after The New York Times reported that five women accused the comedian of sexual misconduct.
Power, control, and a pathological desire to elicit fear all play into why a man might engage in exhibitionism, sex therapists say, in the wake of bombshell revelations against comedian Louis C.K.
Experts told NBC News masturbating in front of women without their permission is typically about exerting control, not an attempt at seduction.
"The shock on a woman's face that he's torturing is where the arousal lies.
It's in her humiliation, said sex therapist Dr. Alexandra Katehakis, clinical director of the Center for Healthy Sex in Los Angeles, who has not treated Louis C.K.
Two female comedians told the New York Times that Louis C.K.
masturbated in front of them in 2002.
Three other women told the Times about other instances of sexual misconduct by the creator of the FX series "Louie."
"These stories are true," Louis C.K.
said in a statement on Friday.
"At the time, I said to myself that what I did was okay because I never showed a woman my dick without asking first, which is also true.
But what I learned later in life, too late, is that when you have power over another person, asking them to look at your dick isnt a question.
Its a predicament for them.
The power I had over these women is that they admired me.
And I wielded that power irresponsibly."
This combination photo shows Eminem, left, at the 'Southpaw' New York Premiere July 2015 and Beyonc, right, at Tidal X: Brooklyn on Oct. 17.
Eminem released his new single "Walk on Water" featuring Beyonc on Friday, Eminem is back and hes brought along Queen Bey.
On Friday, the rapper released his new single Walk on Water, featuring Beyonc.
The track, for his ninth studio album rumored to be called Revival, is his first single from an album since 2014s "Headlights."
Beyonc opens up the downbeat song singing, I walk on water, but I aint no Jesus.
I walk on water but only when it freezes.
The song was released on the same day as Taylor Swift's new album, "Reputation."
As two of the most successful women working in the music industry today, Beyonc and Swift have long drawn comparisons.
On "Walk on Water," Eminem raps about failing to meet expectations.
Why are expectations so high?
the 45-year old rapper says.
Is it the bar I set, my arms outstretched, but I cant reach?
In October, Eminem released a freestyle at the BET Hip-Hop Awards taking aim at President Donald Trump over his response to the deadly violence at protests in Charlottesville in August and his heavy criticism of NFL players protesting police brutality during the national anthem.
Eminem will appear as a musical guest on the Nov. 18 episode of Saturday Night Live, hosted by Chance the Rapper.
The actress says Ratner outed her on set when she was just 18 years old.
Actress Ellen Page says director Brett Ratner outed her on the set of "X-men: The Last Stand" when she was just 18 years old.
Page, who is gay, says at the time she was still coming to terms with her own sexuality.
"I was a young adult who had not yet come out to myself.
I knew I was gay, but did not know, so to speak.
I felt violated when this happened," Page writes in a lengthy Facebook post which says the director urged another woman on set to have sex with Page "to make her realize she was gay."
Page also accuses the director of verbally harassing other women on the set of the 2006 film.
"This man, who had cast me in the film, started our months of filming at a work event with this horrific, unchallenged plea.
He outed me with no regard for my well-being, an act we all recognize as homophobic," Page wrote.
"I proceeded to watch him on set say degrading things to women.
I remember a woman walking by the monitor as he made a comment about her flappy p----.
Soon after she posted on Facebook Page's co-star in the film, Anna Pauquin, tweeted her support writing "I was there when that comment was made.
I stand with you @ellenpage."
'Late Night': Mark Wahlberg's Kids Don't Think He's Cool Mark Wahlberg tells Seth Meyers about how his kids had no interest in attending the premiere of his new movie, "Daddy's Home 2."
The actor says he stopped being cool in their eyes a long time ago.
(Published Friday, Nov. 10, 2017) The volley from Page is the latest in a slew of allegations that have come Ratner's way in recent weeks.
Six women including actress Olivia Munn accused Ratner of sexual misconduct in a Los Angeles Times report last month.
"Making someone feel ashamed of who they are is a cruel manipulation, designed to oppress and repress.
I was robbed of more than autonomy over my ability to define myself," Page wrote.
"Ratners comment replayed in my mind many times over the years as I encountered homophobia and coped with feelings of reluctance and uncertainty about the industry and my future in it."
Ratner has not yest responded to Page's claims, but last month his attorney issued a statement saying the director "vehemently denies the outrageous derogatory allegations" and is "confident that his name will be cleared once the current media frenzy dies down and people can objectively evaluate the nature of these claims."
Flowers, powders and watermelon rinds may make it into your daily diet this year, according to Whole Foods Markets annual forecast.
The supermarket's global buyers and experts compiled a list of the 10 most anticipated food trends of 2018.
Check out the biggest food trends of next year, according to Whole Foods:
The cancellation of Louis C.Ks film I Love You, Daddy comes after The New York Times reported that five women accused the comedian of sexual misconduct.
Louis C.K.
prided himself on throwing out his latest standup act after the inevitable taped special and building new material from scratch refusing to be a "greatest hits" kind of comic.
He took similar approaches in his other television work, with stark episode-to-episode tone shifts in FX Emmy-winning "Louie," and the searing, out-of-nowhere barroom drama, "Horace and Pete," a Peabody Award honoree.
His dual constants proved surprise and purported honesty sharing unflattering glimpses into the darker recesses of his mind as he joked about everything from pedophilia to race to child rearing.
A day after a New York Times report that details allegations of sexual misconduct leveled against C.K.
by five women, he tossed out the script reaching new levels of surprise and honesty in an extraordinary statement Friday declaring: These stories are true.
Netflix Pulls Plug on Louis CKs Special Amid Sexual Harassment Allegations Five women told the The New York Times that Louis C.K.
masturbated in front of them, triggering backlash against the comedian.
Netflix has cancelled a planned special episode and the premiere of Louis C.K.
's upcoming movie "I Love You, Daddy' has also been nixed.
Kris Sanchez reports.
(Published Friday, Nov. 10, 2017) In his confessional/mea culpa, devoid of the usual celebrity lawyer legalese, he took full responsibility for his actions, saying in blunt terms that he wielded power irresponsibly.
Its unclear where he goes from here.
But theres no looking at Louis C.K.
the same again.
The armchair shrinks among us are left to piece together hints from his prodigious and varied output: Stand-up routines centering on unprintable riffs about masturbation and sexual self-loathing.
Then theres the disturbing episode of Louie in which he clumsily tries to force himself upon his on-again-off-again love interest, Pamela ("This would be rape if you weren't so stupid," she said.
"You can't even rape well!").
Perhaps most troubling is the plot of his latest movie, I Love You Daddy, centered a relationship between teenage girl and a man played by 63-year-old John Malkovich.
The flick also reportedly features a scene in which a character mimes masturbation.
The much-older-man premise and black-and-white aesthetic echoes Manhattan the 1979 film by Woody Allen, who married his girlfriends daughter (35 years his junior) and was accused of (but never charged with) far more reprehensible acts.
The C.K.
fallout quickly became an avalanche: The distributor of I Love You Daddy scrapped the films planned release Friday.
Meanwhile, HBO nixed C.K.
from its Nov. 18 Night of Too Many Stars broadcast.
Netflix canceled his next standup special.
The future of Louie and other shows he produces for FX remain in limbo.
The scandal arrives three years after Bill Cosbys disgrace and amid a current spate of sexual allegations against major entertainment and media figures.
The accusations against C.K.
differ from those facing movie producer Harvey Weinstein and actor Kevin Spacey, in the detail and legal severity.
But that doesnt make the reported accounts of C.K.
's behavior less sickening.
And while fans might feel betrayed, that pales compared to the experience of women who contend he vilely abused his status as a top comedian.
C.K.
said as much Friday, writing: There is nothing about this that I forgive myself for.
And I have to reconcile it with who I am.
Which is nothing compared to the task I left them [his accusers] with.
The comedian bypassed Hollywood before by selling some standup specials and Horace and Pete directly to fans online.
He gave no hints of his plans Friday other than to "step back and take a long time to listen."
Should he mount a return, C.K.
knows he wouldn't be starting his next act from scratch as much as trying to climb back from under a pile of ruins of his own making.
Hester is Director of News Products and Projects at the City University of New York Graduate School of Journalism.
He is also the author of "Raising a Beatle Baby: How John, Paul, George and Ringo Helped us Come Together as a Family."
Follow him on Twitter.
Copyright NBC Owned Television Stations
Patti Murin (Anna) and Caissie Levy (Elsa) with Jacob Smith in FROZEN Box office tickets for the "Frozen" Broadway musical will go on sale Monday morning, Disney producers have announced.
Starting at 10 a.m. on Nov. 13, a new block of tickets for the highly anticipated musical will go on sale at the St. James Theatre at 246 W. 44th St.
The box office is open from 10 a.m. through 8 p.m. Monday through Saturday.
Preview performances begin Thursday, Feb. 22, 2018, and the show opens Thursday, March 22.
They'll go through Sunday, Dec. 30, 2018.
Tickets are also currently on sale at FrozenTheMusical.com through Aug. 12, 2018, or by calling Disney on Broadway hotline at 866-870-2717.
Group tickets for 20 or more are available at DisneyTheatricalSales.com or 800-439-9000.
People can continue to buy tickets online once the box office opens.
"Frozen" joins Disney Theatrical shows "Aladdin" and "The Lion King on" on Broadway.
Broadway veterans Caissie Levy and Patti Murin are starring as sisters Elsa and Anna.
Shadows are reflected on an American Flag.
(Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images) Businesses across the nation are ready to show their appreciation for former and current members of the military this Veterans Day with deals and freebies.
Take a look below to see which deals you can score.
Applebee's Veterans and active military members can choose one of seven free meals being offered at participating Applebee's locations on Saturday, Nov. 11 when they dine in.
Proof of military service is required.
Boston Market Boston Market is offering a BOGO deal this Veterans Day.
When you buy one meal on Friday or Saturday, you get the second one free at participating locations.
You don't need an ID, but you do need a coupon that can be found here.
Buffalo Wild Wings Veterans and active military members can receive free small traditional or boneless wings and a side of fries when they dine in at participating locations on Saturday, Nov. 11.
Proof of military service is required.
Denny's Denny's is offering a free Build Your Own Grand Slam breakfast meal to active, inactive and military personnel between 5 a.m. and noon on Friday, Nov. 10.
Dunkin' Donuts Dunkin' Donuts is offering a free donut to anyone who shows a valid military ID at participating locations on Saturday, Nov. 11.
IHOP IHOP is offering a free stack of red, white and blue pancakes on Friday, Nov. 10 between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. at participating locations.
Wawa Wawa is offering a free coffee to all veterans, active military members and family members all day on Saturday, Nov. 11 at participating locations.
In this Jan. 6, 2016 file photo, producer Harvey Weinstein participates in the "War and Peace" panel at the A&E 2016 Winter TCA in Pasadena, Calif.
In response to recent sexual assault allegations against major Hollywood figures, Los Angeles County District Attorney Jackie Lacey launched a special task force that will evaluate the complaints, she announced Thursday.
Lacey aims to address the allegations of sexual abuse in Hollywood with the help of veteran sex crime prosecutors.
"I have established a task force of specially trained deputy district attorneys who are ready to evaluate these cases if any are referred to my office for criminal prosecution," she said in statement on Thursday.
The district attorney said she carefully considered agents in the task force who will "work together to ensure a uniformed approach to the legal review and possible prosecution of any case that meets both the legal and factual standards for criminal prosecution."
'Late Night': Mark Wahlberg's Kids Don't Think He's Cool Mark Wahlberg tells Seth Meyers about how his kids had no interest in attending the premiere of his new movie, "Daddy's Home 2."
The actor says he stopped being cool in their eyes a long time ago.
(Published Friday, Nov. 10, 2017) Although they have not received cases for potential criminal filing, Lacey said she is working with the Beverly Hills and Los Angeles police departments.
Allegations of sexual abuse in the entertainment industry have surfaced after a group of women accused producer Harvey Weinstein of sexual assault and abuse since the late 1970s.
The allegations sparked the #MeToo movement, which involves survivors of sexual assault sharing their experiences.
A series of celebrities showed support for the movement while some shared their own experiences.
Most recently, actor Terry Crews filed a police report against Hollywood executive Adam Venit after taking to Twitter to share his experience of allegedly being groped at a party in 2016.
Other major Hollywood figures that have been accused of misconduct include Kevin Spacey, Steven Seagal, Ed Westwick, Danny Masterson, Brett Ratner, Jeremy Piven and Louis C.K.
'Late Night': A Closer Look at How Republicans Are Pushing Their Tax Plan After Election Losses Seth Meyers takes a closer look at how Republicans are forging ahead with a "Hail Mary" tax cut plan that's widely unpopular in polls and would actually increase taxes on many middle-class families.
'Late Night': Mark Wahlberg's Kids Didn't Want to Go to His Premiere Mark Wahlberg tells Seth Meyers about how his kids had no interest in attending the premiere of his new movie, "Daddy's Home 2."
The actor says he stopped being cool in their eyes a long time ago.
A star studded concert raises millions for those affected by the North Bay fires.
Big names like Metallica, Dead & Company and Dave Matthews Band, donated their time for the sold out show.
The event raised more than $15 million for victims and first responders in the North Bay.
(Published Friday, Nov. 10, 2017) "San Francisco and the Bay Area will not forget, we will support the North Bay as they rebuild:" Rock and Roll Hall of Famers Metallica capped off a stadium-shaking set Thursday night with these words, summing up what 40,000 people in the crowd were feeling.
"Band Together Bay Area" a five-hour benefit concert geared to help recovery efforts in the North Bay wildfires took place at AT&T Park from 6 to 11 p.m., raising $15 million.
Organizers said it's just a start.
Giants general manager Larry Baer (who donated the stadium), and Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff (who donated $2 million), were among those who pitched in to make the fundraiser a success.
The artists performed for free.
Salesforce and Gogle had already help raise some $12 million for fire relief efforst by the time of the show.
All proceeds from ticket sales will benefit low-income, vulnerable communities impacted by the crisis, including vineyard workers, immigrants, displaced young people and students.
People who lost their homes and first responders got to attend the concert for free.
Tipping Point Community, a San Francisco-based nonprofit, will be working with groups such as the Redwood Credit Community Fund, Community Foundation of Sonoma County, Napa Valley Community Foundation and Catholic Charities of Santa Rosa to distribute the proceeds.
Other acts included the Dave Matthews Band, Dead & Company, Rancid, G-Eazy, and Raphael Saadiq.
The crowd jammed to Grateful Dead hits and a surprise appearance by none other than John Mayer.
This is to raise spirits not just to raise money, said Mickey Hart of Dead & Company.
A lot of these people are down.
They need some hope.
They need the will to fight back to rebuild if they need to rebuild, and to go on.
Bay Area pride was strong, with concertgoers sporting their favorite Bay Area fire department, sports team or band insignia.Many wore t-shirts which read: "The love in the air is thicker than smoke," signs that were posted all over Napa and Sonoma counties during the aftermath of the fire.
"This is our home.
And we will do anything for our home," Oakland punk rock band Rancid said, before playing their song "Telegraph Avenue."
The concert kicked off with a prayer, and at one point, every person who lost a home or helped toward recovery efforts held up their lit-up phone.
Oakland rapper G Eazy slammed President Donald Trump during his performance: "These fires were devastating and the President of the United States said nothing," he said, leading the crowd in a profanity-laced chant.
Football legend Joe Montana and former Giants Barry Bonds introduced first responders and evacuees who saved others during the fire.
Messages about fire relief efforts sprinkled the acts, with everyone from Snoop Dogg to Facebook CEO Sheryl Sandburg speaking our.
Local act Metallica thrilled the audience which danced, cheered and even veered into moshing.
I want to say thank you to those who risk their lives to save other lives, Metallica front man James Hetfield said.
Honored to take the stage tonight to help our friends and family in need.
Lets all #BandTogetherBayArea.https://t.co/jcH3WO5GNw Dead & Company (@deadandcompany) November 10, 2017 "San Francisco and the Bay Area will not forget, we will support the #NorthBay as they rebuild" - @Metallica at #BandTogetherBayArea which raised millions in North Bay fire relief last night.
https://t.co/fgOM7DA7FTpic.twitter.com/HAICKjdb3D Riya Bhattacharjee (@loislane28) November 10, 2017 Oakland's own @G_Eazy onstage now at #BandTogetherBayArea - posing just before the show.
"I'm here to help."
pic.twitter.com/X9V820UDMl scott budman (@scottbudman) November 10, 2017 49er Hall Of Famer Joe Montana: "It's one thing to have compassion.
It's another to take action.
Thank you!
"#BandTogetherBayAreapic.twitter.com/3f4Iukt3ou scott budman (@scottbudman) November 10, 2017
What to Know Couples are more likely than ever to meet online and to use digital gadgets throughout the marriage process While proposers still experience many of the classic anxieties of purchasing a ring, they're also more likely to buy online When it comes to proposing itself, couples are increasingly taking the more traditional, on-bended-knee approach While many of the joys (and stresses) of getting married have continued through the generations, these days spouses-to-be are increasingly digitally dependent as they go about tying the knot, a new study says.
Couples are more likely than ever to meet online, with 19 percent of brides saying they met their partner through internet dating or social media in 2017.
Meeting through friends (17 percent), college (15 percent) and work (12 percent) were the runner-ups.
As for proposals, the average proposer spends 4.4 months planning it, with 7 percent of respondents saying it took a year or longer to get it down right.
Getting the engagement ring is still a taxing process, with proposers spending an average of 3.5 months looking for a ring, of which they go through about 26 before finding the right one.
They pay an average of $6,351 for a ring, according to the study by The Knot, a resource for couples looking to get married.
While a majority of grooms continue to purchase rings at retailers (86 percent) with nearly half (45 percent) heading to a local or independent jeweler for the purchase more and more of them are buying rings over the internet.
This year, 14 percent of grooms bought their engagement ring online compared to 10 percent in 2011.
They reported online purchases as being cheaper, more convenient and more customizable.
In the age of viral wedding proposals, it may not be surprising the study shows a shift away from private proposals, with 45 percent of them happening at a public location.
On top of that, photographers and videographers are capturing 47 percent of proposals.
While couples increasingly look to the internet to help them, time-honored traditions are becoming more popular for the proposal itself.
In fact, 9 in 10 grooms proposed with engagement ring in hand, using the words, Will you marry me?
The majority of grooms (87 percent) say they proposed on bended knee, up from 77 percent in 2011.
And grooms are more frequently asking for the permission of their partners family than in years past, with 78 percent seeking their support.
Perhaps most striking, once the proposal was wrapped up, nine in 10 couples reported using mobile devices to plan their wedding in 2016, the study said.
As the Cavaliers prepare to play the Knicks at Madison Square Garden Monday, LeBron James says he's "not a fan of Phil Jackson."
(Published Monday, Nov. 13, 2017) A Monday morning subway ride with a team of NBA players?
Only in New York.
Video posted to the Cavaliers' Twitter account shows LeBron James and his teammates, in town to play the Knicks at Madison Square Garden, hopping on the subway from Penn Station back to their hotel after practice Monday morning.
Former Knick J.R. Smith was among the train-taking contingent.
"We had two options: a 45-minute bus ride or a six-minute train ride, so we decided to hop on the train with the squad," James says in another video.
James and Dwayne Wade managed to grab seats, but their other teammates who had to stand didn't exactly have much clearance in ceiling room.
"We're squishing," James remarks as he films his teammates scrunched over in the subway car.
James said it was his first time riding the subway in New York.
Despite their apparent effort at staying incognito in hoodies, the players didn't exactly blend in.
Eagle-eyed straphangers who noticed them on the train waved and said hello.
But a man seated next to James became irritated when James pointed the camera in selfie mode toward him, and shoved the camera away.
James laughed it off.
New Yorkers, after all, are notoriously hard to impress.
The MTA, for its part, tweeted in response to the video: "Thanks so much for taking the subway Lebron, but the King of this town is @kporzee and we're riding with the Knicks tonight."
Top Sports Photos: Brady and the Patriots Triumph in Denver
Video Ellen Pompeo tells Seth Meyers about how she thought every year would be the last year of "Grey's Anatomy."
"I can't believe people aren't sick of me yet," she says as the show celebrates its...
Ibtihaj Muhammad, the first U.S. Olympic athlete to compete while wearing a hijab, has inspired other Muslim athletes.
Mekahlo Medina reports for the NBC4 News at 5 p.m. on Monday, Aug. 8, 2016.
It's been quite a run for U.S. Olympian Ibtihaj Muhammad.
In 2016, she became the first American athlete to compete while wearing a Hijab.
Now... she has a doll in her own likeness courtesy of Barbie.
At the Glamour Women of the Year LIVE Summit Monday, Muhammad became the latest honoree as part of Barbie Shero program that recognizes female trailblazers.
Muhammad was presented the doll by last year's Shero, body activist and model, Ashley Graham.
"Through playing with Barbie, I was able to imagine and dream about who I could become," said Ibtihaj Muhammad.
"I love that my relationship with Barbie has come full circle, and now I have my own doll wearing a hijab that the next generation of girls can use to play out their own dreams."
Muhammad, one of Time magazine's "100 Most Influential People" of 2016, became the first female Muslim-American athlete to earn a medal at the Olympics, earning a bronze medal in the Team Sabre.
"Barbie is celebrating Ibtihaj not only for her accolades as an Olympian, but for embracing what makes her stand out," said Sejal Shah Miller, Vice President of Global Marketing for Barbie.
"Ibtihaj is an inspiration to countless girls who never saw themselves represented, and by honoring her story, we hope this doll reminds them that they can be and do anything."
The doll will be available for purchase in 2018.
Former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who ignited a national movement last year after refusing to stand during the national anthem before NFL games, has been named GQ's "Citizen of the Year."
Former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who ignited a national movement last year after refusing to stand during the national anthem before NFL games, has been named GQ's "Citizen of the Year."
The men's magazine wrote that Kaepernick's kneeling in protest of racial inequality and police brutality "changed everything."
"It cost him his job," editors wrote.
"It also transformed Colin Kaepernick into a lightning rod and a powerful symbol of activism and resistance."
Kaepernick took to Twitter on Monday to announce that he was "honored" to be recognized by GQ.
The former signal caller, who opted out of his contract with the 49ers after the 2016-17 season, has yet to sign with a new team.
Last month, Kaepernick filed a grievance against the NFL claiming that he doesn't have a new home in the league due to owner collusion.
Kaepernick may be out of the league, but his protest has not been forgotten.
A number of players this season have continued to kneel, raise fists, sit or outright stay off the field during national anthems this year.
Opponents, including President Donald Trump, believe Kaepernick and other players are disrespecting the nation and the flag by not standing for the anthem.
49ers defensive back Eric Reid, Kaepernick's former teammate, has reiterated that the purpose of the protest is to not disrespect the military, the flag or the anthem itself.
"This is about systemic oppression that has been rampant in this country for decades on top of decades," Reid told NBC Sports Bay Area last month.
"And I will continue to encourage people to educate themselves of how we got to where we are today, because it didnt happen overnight.
Its not going to happen overnight to fix these issues, so were going to keep talking about it.
I know I will keep doing what I feel is necessary to use the platform I have to make those changes."
This cover image released by Big Machine shows art for Taylor Swift's new album, "reputation."
Taylor Swift is coming to a city near year you.
Just days after the release of her sixth album, "reputation," the "Look What You Made Me Do" singer announced tour dates for the North American leg of her Reputation tour.
While tickets go on sale to the general public Wednesday, Dec. 13, fans have the chance to purchase tickets in advance via Ticketmaster's Verified Fan program.
Registration will stay open through Nov. 28.
Additional dates in Australia, Europe and New Zealand will be announced at a later time.
Here is the complete list of tour dates: 'Late Night': Mark Wahlberg's Kids Don't Think He's Cool Mark Wahlberg tells Seth Meyers about how his kids had no interest in attending the premiere of his new movie, "Daddy's Home 2."
The actor says he stopped being cool in their eyes a long time ago.
(Published Friday, Nov. 10, 2017) May 8 University of Phoenix Stadium in Glendale, Arizona May 12 Levi's Stadium in Santa Clara, California May 19 Rose Bowl in Pasadena, California May 22 CenturyLink Field in Seattle, Washington May 25 Sports Authority Field at Mile High in Denver, Colorado June 2 Soldier Field in Chicago, Illinois 'Late Night': A Closer Look at GOP Tax Plan After Losses Seth Meyers takes a closer look at how Republicans are forging ahead with a "Hail Mary" tax cut plan that's widely unpopular in polls and would actually increase taxes on many middle-class families.
(Published Friday, Nov. 10, 2017) June 30 Papa John's Cardinal Stadium in Louisville, Kentucky July 7 Ohio Stadium in Columbus, Ohio July 10 FedEx Field in Washington, D.C. July 14 Lincoln Financial Field in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania July 17 First Energy Stadium in Cleveland, Ohio July 21 MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey Louis C.K.
Film Premiere Scrapped Amid Sexual Misconduct Allegations The cancellation of Louis C.Ks film I Love You, Daddy comes after The New York Times reported that five women accused the comedian of sexual misconduct.
(Published Friday, Nov. 10, 2017) July 28 Gillette Stadium in Foxborough, Massachusetts Aug. 4 Rogers Centre in Toronto, Ontario Aug. 7 Heinz Field in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Aug. 11 Mercedes-Benz Stadium in Atlanta, Georgia Aug. 14 Raymond James Stadium in Tampa, Florida Aug. 18 Hard Rock Stadium in Miami, Florida 'Late Night': Clinton Helps Meyers Tell Jokes He Can't Tell There are some jokes that just sound wrong coming from Seth Meyers, so Hillary Rodham Clinton stops by to help him out.
(Published Thursday, Nov. 9, 2017) Aug. 25 Nissan Stadium in Nashville, Tennessee Aug. 28 Ford Field in Detroit, Michigan Sept. 1 U.S. Bank Stadium in Minneapolis, Minnesota Sept. 8 Arrowhead Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri Sept. 15 Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis, Indiana Sept. 18 The Dome at America's Center in St. Louis, Missouri 'Late Night': Lithgow Went Skinny Dipping During 'Footloose' John Lithgow tells Seth Meyers about the partying he did with costar Dianne Wiest while on the set of the 1984 film, "Footloose."
Lithgow says they "became the wild ones" to compensate being around younger costars like Kevin Bacon and Lori Singer.
One night, Lithgow and Wiest took off their clothes and swam in the pool.
(Published Wednesday, Nov. 8, 2017) Sept. 22 Mercedes-Benz Superdome in New Orleans, Louisiana Sept. 29 NRG Stadium in Houston, Texas Oct. 6 AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Texas Impressively, the singer-songwriter sold 700,000 copies of her album on its first day of release.
Swift recently performed "Call It What You Want" and "...Ready for It?"
on Saturday Night Live.
Swift's last concert series, the 1989 World Tour, ran from May 5, 2015 through Dec. 12, 2015.
Dozens of celebrity guests joined her onstage, including Uzo Aduba, Lily Aldridge, Ciara, Ellen DeGeneres, Jason Derulo, Lena Dunham, Selena Gomez, Ellie Goulding, Gigi Hadid, Mariska Hargitay, Sam Hunt, Mick Jagger, Kendall Jenner, Nick Jonas, Lisa Kudrow, Miranda Lambert, John Legend, Lorde, Alanis Morissette, Hailee Steinfeld, Justin Timberlake and Keith Urban.
Jordan "Jet" Temkin, two-time international champion of the Drone League World Championship, and actor Sean Astin fly the new Sharper Image drone at the Sharper Image pop-up store launch party in New York's Times Square, Thursday, Nov. 9, 2017.
Sean Astin is no stranger to the spotlight.
The 46-year old has been acting for decades, appearing in the classic films like The Goonies, Rudy and The Lord of the Rings trilogy, but its his latest role thats brought him a new generation of fans.
Astin appears as Bob Newby on the second season of the hit Netflix series Stranger Things.
A new addition to last year's most buzz-worthy show, he appreciates the strong fan reaction to his character.
There is no question that Stranger Things has been loved by the country," Astin said last week at the Sharper Image pop-up shop in New York City.
They developed my character and gave him a really important role in season two.
'Late Night': Mark Wahlberg's Kids Don't Think He's Cool Mark Wahlberg tells Seth Meyers about how his kids had no interest in attending the premiere of his new movie, "Daddy's Home 2."
The actor says he stopped being cool in their eyes a long time ago.
(Published Friday, Nov. 10, 2017) Astin was on hand at the brands opening of their holiday pop-up shop in Times Square, which features drones and other high end electronics.
I mean, who doesnt love Sharper Image.
Like so many of us here tonight, I grew up with Sharper Image, said Astin.
Playing with all the awesome stuff in this store takes me back.
Astins character on Stranger Things is well familiar with technology.
His character is a Radioshack employee who dates Winona Ryders character.
As a former child actor, Astin only has great things to say about the kids he works with on the Netflix show.
With these particular young performers, it didnt take but a moment to see them as professional equals, he said.
Theyre smart, theyre creative, they know their craft, theyre good at their job and theyre easy to be with.
'Late Night': A Closer Look at GOP Tax Plan After Losses
Sexual misconduct allegations against Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore were at the forefront of "Saturday Night Live's" cold open, with members of the Trump administration urging him to drop out of the race.
"It's hard to convince people that you're not into young girls when you dress like Woody from 'Toy Story,'" said Vice President Mike Pence, played by Beck Bennett.
The skit highlighted an issue the GOP has grappled with this week, after four women said Moore tried to have sexual or romantic relationships with them decades ago, when they were teenagers and he was in his 30s.
The Washington Post reported that one woman who said he initiated sexual contact with her was 14 years old at the time.
The real Moore has denied the allegations, insisting they are an attempt to derail his bid for a Senate seat.
In an interview with Sean Hannity, though, Moore did not rule out having dated teenage girls.
"All right, if everyone thinks I did it, I'll marry her," said "SNL's" Moore, played by Mikey Day.
"I want you to consider stepping aside," Pence said.
"Don't think of it as ending your campaign, think of it as going to conversion therapy to turn yourself into someone who's no longer a candidate."
Moore begs Pence to figure out another solution, perhaps by calling "the boss," to which Pence says, "Sorry, I'm not going to call Vladimir Putin about this."
Pence leaves Moore to think about dropping out, when Attorney General Jeff Sessions, played by Kate McKinnon, kicks out of a cabinet in the room.
After telling Moore that he "checks a lot of boxes" as a candidate, Sessions kicks him out of the room for being "too Alabama" even for the state native.
Session then seeks advice from "papa," an opossum, on "how to be happy again," and reveals he wants to go back to the senate.
"There's so many men out there acting like monsters, Mr. Weinstein, Kevin Spacey, the president," McKinnon's Sessions says shakily to the opossum.
"Daddy, has this been happening forever?
Have I both fostered and benefited from a culture of systemic oppression?
No?
Well, that's a relief."
In another sketch, "SNL" mocked the Democratic National Convention with a "We're back!"
commercial following the party's election wins this week, particularly in New Jersey and Virginia gubernatorial races.
"This is our time, we're back," the politicians said in an awkward, off-beat ad.
Sen. Chuck Schumer (Alex Moffat), Sen. Dianne Feinstein (Cecily Strong), Sen. Tim Kaine (Mikey Day), Rep. Nancy Pelosi (Kate McKinnon) and former DNC leader Donna Brazile (Leslie Jones) starred in the commercial.
"We learned our lesson from the last election.
We can't just focus on coastal elites," McKinnon's Pelosi said.
"We need mouth breathers from Wisconsin."
The DNC introduced "new blood" to the party, including former Vice President Joe Biden, played by Jason Sudeikis, and Bernie Sanders, played by Larry David.
McKinnon also showed up in the ad as Hillary Clinton and as "not Hillary."
"Weekend Update" kicked off with jabs at President Donald Trump, who is wrapping up a trip in Asia.
"Well it's Veterans Day and Donald Trump celebrated by finally going to Vietnam," co-host Colin Jost quipped.
North Korea called Trump a "lunatic old man" eariler this week, and hours before "SNL" went live, Trump tweeted a mocking response, saying he would "NEVER" call Kim Jong Un "short and fat."
"Now, a lot of times Donald Trump goes way over the line with his tweets, but this time, that was pretty damn funny," co-host Michael Che said.
"I mean look at how vain and catty he is."
Jost noted that it was a "good weekend to stay inside" because of the cold weather but also because "everyone you've ever heard of is a sex monster," on the growing list of men accused of sexual misconduct.
New allegations this week included Moore and comedian Louis C.K.
"I'm not saying he's guilty but his naughty little cowboy outfit screams it," he said about Moore.
Host Tiffany Haddish used her monologue to talk about otherwise taboo topics, from re-wearing her red carpet dress, to sexual assault allegations swarming Hollywood.
"Listen fellas.
Listen.
If you got your thang-thang out and she got all her clothes on, you're WRONG.
You're in the wrong," she said emphatically.
Haddish made history as "SNL's" first black female stand-up comedian to host the show.
Musical guest Taylor Swift performed two songs, "Ready for It?"
and "Call It What You Want."
Disneyland visitors who were at the park between Sept. 12 to Sept. 27 may have come into contact with water carrying the bacteria for Legionnaires' disease.
Jane Yamamoto reports for the NBC4 News at 6 p.m. on Saturday, November 11, 2017.
(Published Saturday, Nov. 11, 2017) Nine people contracted Legionnaires' disease after visiting Disneyland in September, a Disneyland spokesperson confirmed Saturday.
The nine Disneyland cases are among 12 total cases that the Orange County Health Care Agency is investigating regarding people who live in or visited Anaheim in September.
Disneyland was informed of the cases Oct. 27, chemically treating and voluntarily shutting down two cooling towers to rid them of the Legionella bacteria, said Walt Disney Parks and Resorts Chief Medical Officer Pamela Hymel.
Legionnaires' disease is a type of pneumonia with symptoms that include cough, shortness of breath, fever, muscle aches and headaches, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
People can contract the disease by breathing in small droplets of water in the air that contain the Legionella bacteria.
The disease is not contagious from person to person.
Of the 12 cases being investigated, all patients range in age from 52 to 94 years old, said OCHCA Public Information Officer Jessica Good in a statement to NBC 4 News.
Ten of the 12 people were hospitalized.
One person, who did not visit Disneyland, had "additional health issues" and died, Good said.
Three of the patients did not visit Disneyland, but did live or travel in Anaheim, Good said.
After Disney took steps to get rid of the bacteria, the OCHCA "indicated there is no longer any known risk associated with our facilities," Hymel said.
According to the OCHCA, the Legionnaire's disease exposure period ranged from Sept. 12 to Sept. 27, Hymel said, adding that Disney thoroughly reviewed all regular water testing for the resort, "including work performed by contracted third-party experts," and "implemented additional redundant testing of other cooling towers on our property."
The OCHCA has not identified the common exposure source for all the cases, Hymel said.
No additional cases have been identified in Anaheim after September and there is "no known ongoing risk associated with this outbreak," Good said.
Editor's Note: This story has been updated with comments from the Orange County Health Care Agency.
The cancellation of Louis C.Ks film I Love You, Daddy comes after The New York Times reported that five women accused the comedian of sexual misconduct.
Power, control, and a pathological desire to elicit fear all play into why a man might engage in exhibitionism, sex therapists say, in the wake of bombshell revelations against comedian Louis C.K.
Experts told NBC News masturbating in front of women without their permission is typically about exerting control, not an attempt at seduction.
"The shock on a woman's face that he's torturing is where the arousal lies.
It's in her humiliation, said sex therapist Dr. Alexandra Katehakis, clinical director of the Center for Healthy Sex in Los Angeles, who has not treated Louis C.K.
Two female comedians told the New York Times that Louis C.K.
masturbated in front of them in 2002.
Three other women told the Times about other instances of sexual misconduct by the creator of the FX series "Louie."
"These stories are true," Louis C.K.
said in a statement on Friday.
"At the time, I said to myself that what I did was okay because I never showed a woman my dick without asking first, which is also true.
But what I learned later in life, too late, is that when you have power over another person, asking them to look at your dick isnt a question.
Its a predicament for them.
The power I had over these women is that they admired me.
And I wielded that power irresponsibly."
"Vice Principals" creator Danny McBride is seen during the South by Southwest Film Festival on Friday, March 11, 2016, in Austin, Texas.
(Photo by Jack Plunkett/Invision/AP) HBO's "Vice Principals," originally conceived as a movie, easily could have become the next "Horrible Bosses" with its almost cartoon-like comedy-of-escalation approach.
But fortunately the tale of warring high school administrators got fleshed out into a TV series that grew darker and deeper with every episode.
The show, whose title characters burned and pillaged their way past the point of no return by Episode 2, ends its second and final season Sunday.
The finale promises a raucous capper to a program that proved high school never ends.
The premise seemed simple enough: Two rival vice principals at a South Carolina high school team to undermine their new boss after being passed over for the top job.
'Late Night': Mark Wahlberg's Kids Don't Think He's Cool Mark Wahlberg tells Seth Meyers about how his kids had no interest in attending the premiere of his new movie, "Daddy's Home 2."
The actor says he stopped being cool in their eyes a long time ago.
(Published Friday, Nov. 10, 2017) But unlikely allies Neal Gamby and Lee Russell go far past usual sitcom hijinks to chase away principal Dr. Belinda Brown publicly humiliating her, coaxing her into an alcoholic relapse and burning down her house.
The show plays with fire, daring us to care about Gamby (Danny McBride).
Like McBride's washed-up relief pitched character in his great previous HBO series, "Eastbound & Down," Gamby is a blowhard with delusions of grandeur.
There's also a hurt little boy inside the man-child stuck in the past, from dealing with his ex-wife and her new husband to navigating high school more like a teenager than an authority figure.
Yet in "Vice Principals," conscience lurks closer to the surface with Gamby, who woke up a bit after being shot in the school parking lot by a masked assailant at the end of Season 1.
Series co-creator McBride's maturity as an actor includes ceding much of the stage to Walton Goggins' Russell, a psychopath whose destruction-strewn path to what passes for power at North Jackson High appears rooted in his domination as a child by his two sisters.
The standout, though, is Kimberly Hebert Gregory as Brown a figure who went quickly from caricature to character.
The only disappointing part of Season 2 has been the relative lack of her presence.
Gregory leads a strong supporting cast that includes Georgia King and Edi Patterson as Gambys on-again-off-again teacher girlfriends.
For all the over-the-top machination and violence, the most compelling moments of Vice Principals play out among the teachers and administrators who regress to teenager-hood rife with popularity-contest antics coursing through romantic rivalries, emotionally charged friendships and grabs for status.
'Late Night': A Closer Look at GOP Tax Plan After Losses Seth Meyers takes a closer look at how Republicans are forging ahead with a "Hail Mary" tax cut plan that's widely unpopular in polls and would actually increase taxes on many middle-class families.
(Published Friday, Nov. 10, 2017) Perhaps Gregorys Brown will return for Sunday's finale it would be appropriate for a real adult to take charge as the identity of Gambys shooter, a mystery that doesnt seem quite solved, presumably will be revealed (or at least confirmed).
One mystery Vice Principals wont wrap as easily: Why is it that while most folks graduate high school, many never leave?
Hester is Director of News Products and Projects at the City University of New York Graduate School of Journalism.
He is also the author of "Raising a Beatle Baby: How John, Paul, George and Ringo Helped us Come Together as a Family."
Follow him on Twitter.
Copyright NBC Owned Television Stations
The actress says Ratner outed her on set when she was just 18 years old.
Actress Ellen Page says director Brett Ratner outed her on the set of "X-men: The Last Stand" when she was just 18 years old.
Page, who is gay, says at the time she was still coming to terms with her own sexuality.
"I was a young adult who had not yet come out to myself.
I knew I was gay, but did not know, so to speak.
I felt violated when this happened," Page writes in a lengthy Facebook post which says the director urged another woman on set to have sex with Page "to make her realize she was gay."
Page also accuses the director of verbally harassing other women on the set of the 2006 film.
"This man, who had cast me in the film, started our months of filming at a work event with this horrific, unchallenged plea.
He outed me with no regard for my well-being, an act we all recognize as homophobic," Page wrote.
"I proceeded to watch him on set say degrading things to women.
I remember a woman walking by the monitor as he made a comment about her flappy p----.
Soon after she posted on Facebook Page's co-star in the film, Anna Pauquin, tweeted her support writing "I was there when that comment was made.
I stand with you @ellenpage."
'Late Night': Mark Wahlberg's Kids Don't Think He's Cool Mark Wahlberg tells Seth Meyers about how his kids had no interest in attending the premiere of his new movie, "Daddy's Home 2."
The actor says he stopped being cool in their eyes a long time ago.
(Published Friday, Nov. 10, 2017) The volley from Page is the latest in a slew of allegations that have come Ratner's way in recent weeks.
Six women including actress Olivia Munn accused Ratner of sexual misconduct in a Los Angeles Times report last month.
"Making someone feel ashamed of who they are is a cruel manipulation, designed to oppress and repress.
I was robbed of more than autonomy over my ability to define myself," Page wrote.
"Ratners comment replayed in my mind many times over the years as I encountered homophobia and coped with feelings of reluctance and uncertainty about the industry and my future in it."
Ratner has not yest responded to Page's claims, but last month his attorney issued a statement saying the director "vehemently denies the outrageous derogatory allegations" and is "confident that his name will be cleared once the current media frenzy dies down and people can objectively evaluate the nature of these claims."
This combination photo shows Eminem, left, at the 'Southpaw' New York Premiere July 2015 and Beyonc, right, at Tidal X: Brooklyn on Oct. 17.
Eminem released his new single "Walk on Water" featuring Beyonc on Friday, Eminem is back and hes brought along Queen Bey.
On Friday, the rapper released his new single Walk on Water, featuring Beyonc.
The track, for his ninth studio album rumored to be called Revival, is his first single from an album since 2014s "Headlights."
Beyonc opens up the downbeat song singing, I walk on water, but I aint no Jesus.
I walk on water but only when it freezes.
The song was released on the same day as Taylor Swift's new album, "Reputation."
As two of the most successful women working in the music industry today, Beyonc and Swift have long drawn comparisons.
On "Walk on Water," Eminem raps about failing to meet expectations.
Why are expectations so high?
the 45-year old rapper says.
Is it the bar I set, my arms outstretched, but I cant reach?
In October, Eminem released a freestyle at the BET Hip-Hop Awards taking aim at President Donald Trump over his response to the deadly violence at protests in Charlottesville in August and his heavy criticism of NFL players protesting police brutality during the national anthem.
Eminem will appear as a musical guest on the Nov. 18 episode of Saturday Night Live, hosted by Chance the Rapper.
The cancellation of Louis C.Ks film I Love You, Daddy comes after The New York Times reported that five women accused the comedian of sexual misconduct.
Louis C.K.
prided himself on throwing out his latest standup act after the inevitable taped special and building new material from scratch refusing to be a "greatest hits" kind of comic.
He took similar approaches in his other television work, with stark episode-to-episode tone shifts in FX Emmy-winning "Louie," and the searing, out-of-nowhere barroom drama, "Horace and Pete," a Peabody Award honoree.
His dual constants proved surprise and purported honesty sharing unflattering glimpses into the darker recesses of his mind as he joked about everything from pedophilia to race to child rearing.
A day after a New York Times report that details allegations of sexual misconduct leveled against C.K.
by five women, he tossed out the script reaching new levels of surprise and honesty in an extraordinary statement Friday declaring: These stories are true.
Netflix Pulls Plug on Louis CKs Special Amid Sexual Harassment Allegations Five women told the The New York Times that Louis C.K.
masturbated in front of them, triggering backlash against the comedian.
Netflix has cancelled a planned special episode and the premiere of Louis C.K.
's upcoming movie "I Love You, Daddy' has also been nixed.
Kris Sanchez reports.
(Published Friday, Nov. 10, 2017) In his confessional/mea culpa, devoid of the usual celebrity lawyer legalese, he took full responsibility for his actions, saying in blunt terms that he wielded power irresponsibly.
Its unclear where he goes from here.
But theres no looking at Louis C.K.
the same again.
The armchair shrinks among us are left to piece together hints from his prodigious and varied output: Stand-up routines centering on unprintable riffs about masturbation and sexual self-loathing.
Then theres the disturbing episode of Louie in which he clumsily tries to force himself upon his on-again-off-again love interest, Pamela ("This would be rape if you weren't so stupid," she said.
"You can't even rape well!").
Perhaps most troubling is the plot of his latest movie, I Love You Daddy, centered a relationship between teenage girl and a man played by 63-year-old John Malkovich.
The flick also reportedly features a scene in which a character mimes masturbation.
The much-older-man premise and black-and-white aesthetic echoes Manhattan the 1979 film by Woody Allen, who married his girlfriends daughter (35 years his junior) and was accused of (but never charged with) far more reprehensible acts.
The C.K.
fallout quickly became an avalanche: The distributor of I Love You Daddy scrapped the films planned release Friday.
Meanwhile, HBO nixed C.K.
from its Nov. 18 Night of Too Many Stars broadcast.
Netflix canceled his next standup special.
The future of Louie and other shows he produces for FX remain in limbo.
The scandal arrives three years after Bill Cosbys disgrace and amid a current spate of sexual allegations against major entertainment and media figures.
The accusations against C.K.
differ from those facing movie producer Harvey Weinstein and actor Kevin Spacey, in the detail and legal severity.
But that doesnt make the reported accounts of C.K.
's behavior less sickening.
And while fans might feel betrayed, that pales compared to the experience of women who contend he vilely abused his status as a top comedian.
C.K.
said as much Friday, writing: There is nothing about this that I forgive myself for.
And I have to reconcile it with who I am.
Which is nothing compared to the task I left them [his accusers] with.
The comedian bypassed Hollywood before by selling some standup specials and Horace and Pete directly to fans online.
He gave no hints of his plans Friday other than to "step back and take a long time to listen."
Should he mount a return, C.K.
knows he wouldn't be starting his next act from scratch as much as trying to climb back from under a pile of ruins of his own making.
Hester is Director of News Products and Projects at the City University of New York Graduate School of Journalism.
He is also the author of "Raising a Beatle Baby: How John, Paul, George and Ringo Helped us Come Together as a Family."
Follow him on Twitter.
Copyright NBC Owned Television Stations
In this Jan. 6, 2016 file photo, producer Harvey Weinstein participates in the "War and Peace" panel at the A&E 2016 Winter TCA in Pasadena, Calif.
In response to recent sexual assault allegations against major Hollywood figures, Los Angeles County District Attorney Jackie Lacey launched a special task force that will evaluate the complaints, she announced Thursday.
Lacey aims to address the allegations of sexual abuse in Hollywood with the help of veteran sex crime prosecutors.
"I have established a task force of specially trained deputy district attorneys who are ready to evaluate these cases if any are referred to my office for criminal prosecution," she said in statement on Thursday.
The district attorney said she carefully considered agents in the task force who will "work together to ensure a uniformed approach to the legal review and possible prosecution of any case that meets both the legal and factual standards for criminal prosecution."
'Late Night': Mark Wahlberg's Kids Don't Think He's Cool Mark Wahlberg tells Seth Meyers about how his kids had no interest in attending the premiere of his new movie, "Daddy's Home 2."
The actor says he stopped being cool in their eyes a long time ago.
(Published Friday, Nov. 10, 2017) Although they have not received cases for potential criminal filing, Lacey said she is working with the Beverly Hills and Los Angeles police departments.
Allegations of sexual abuse in the entertainment industry have surfaced after a group of women accused producer Harvey Weinstein of sexual assault and abuse since the late 1970s.
The allegations sparked the #MeToo movement, which involves survivors of sexual assault sharing their experiences.
A series of celebrities showed support for the movement while some shared their own experiences.
Most recently, actor Terry Crews filed a police report against Hollywood executive Adam Venit after taking to Twitter to share his experience of allegedly being groped at a party in 2016.
Other major Hollywood figures that have been accused of misconduct include Kevin Spacey, Steven Seagal, Ed Westwick, Danny Masterson, Brett Ratner, Jeremy Piven and Louis C.K.
'Late Night': A Closer Look at How Republicans Are Pushing Their Tax Plan After Election Losses Seth Meyers takes a closer look at how Republicans are forging ahead with a "Hail Mary" tax cut plan that's widely unpopular in polls and would actually increase taxes on many middle-class families.
'Late Night': Mark Wahlberg's Kids Didn't Want to Go to His Premiere Mark Wahlberg tells Seth Meyers about how his kids had no interest in attending the premiere of his new movie, "Daddy's Home 2."
The actor says he stopped being cool in their eyes a long time ago.
A star studded concert raises millions for those affected by the North Bay fires.
Big names like Metallica, Dead & Company and Dave Matthews Band, donated their time for the sold out show.
The event raised more than $15 million for victims and first responders in the North Bay.
(Published Friday, Nov. 10, 2017) "San Francisco and the Bay Area will not forget, we will support the North Bay as they rebuild:" Rock and Roll Hall of Famers Metallica capped off a stadium-shaking set Thursday night with these words, summing up what 40,000 people in the crowd were feeling.
"Band Together Bay Area" a five-hour benefit concert geared to help recovery efforts in the North Bay wildfires took place at AT&T Park from 6 to 11 p.m., raising $15 million.
Organizers said it's just a start.
Giants general manager Larry Baer (who donated the stadium), and Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff (who donated $2 million), were among those who pitched in to make the fundraiser a success.
The artists performed for free.
Salesforce and Gogle had already help raise some $12 million for fire relief efforst by the time of the show.
All proceeds from ticket sales will benefit low-income, vulnerable communities impacted by the crisis, including vineyard workers, immigrants, displaced young people and students.
People who lost their homes and first responders got to attend the concert for free.
Tipping Point Community, a San Francisco-based nonprofit, will be working with groups such as the Redwood Credit Community Fund, Community Foundation of Sonoma County, Napa Valley Community Foundation and Catholic Charities of Santa Rosa to distribute the proceeds.
Other acts included the Dave Matthews Band, Dead & Company, Rancid, G-Eazy, and Raphael Saadiq.
The crowd jammed to Grateful Dead hits and a surprise appearance by none other than John Mayer.
This is to raise spirits not just to raise money, said Mickey Hart of Dead & Company.
A lot of these people are down.
They need some hope.
They need the will to fight back to rebuild if they need to rebuild, and to go on.
Bay Area pride was strong, with concertgoers sporting their favorite Bay Area fire department, sports team or band insignia.Many wore t-shirts which read: "The love in the air is thicker than smoke," signs that were posted all over Napa and Sonoma counties during the aftermath of the fire.
"This is our home.
And we will do anything for our home," Oakland punk rock band Rancid said, before playing their song "Telegraph Avenue."
The concert kicked off with a prayer, and at one point, every person who lost a home or helped toward recovery efforts held up their lit-up phone.
Oakland rapper G Eazy slammed President Donald Trump during his performance: "These fires were devastating and the President of the United States said nothing," he said, leading the crowd in a profanity-laced chant.
Football legend Joe Montana and former Giants Barry Bonds introduced first responders and evacuees who saved others during the fire.
Messages about fire relief efforts sprinkled the acts, with everyone from Snoop Dogg to Facebook CEO Sheryl Sandburg speaking our.
Local act Metallica thrilled the audience which danced, cheered and even veered into moshing.
I want to say thank you to those who risk their lives to save other lives, Metallica front man James Hetfield said.
Honored to take the stage tonight to help our friends and family in need.
Lets all #BandTogetherBayArea.https://t.co/jcH3WO5GNw Dead & Company (@deadandcompany) November 10, 2017 "San Francisco and the Bay Area will not forget, we will support the #NorthBay as they rebuild" - @Metallica at #BandTogetherBayArea which raised millions in North Bay fire relief last night.
https://t.co/fgOM7DA7FTpic.twitter.com/HAICKjdb3D Riya Bhattacharjee (@loislane28) November 10, 2017 Oakland's own @G_Eazy onstage now at #BandTogetherBayArea - posing just before the show.
"I'm here to help."
pic.twitter.com/X9V820UDMl scott budman (@scottbudman) November 10, 2017 49er Hall Of Famer Joe Montana: "It's one thing to have compassion.
It's another to take action.
Thank you!
"#BandTogetherBayAreapic.twitter.com/3f4Iukt3ou scott budman (@scottbudman) November 10, 2017
A United States Coast Guardsman was killed by a drunk driver, according to police, and now that victim's family is speaking out.
NBC10's Tim Furlong has the story about the phone call that changed their lives forever.
A member of the Coast Guard from Gloucester County, New Jersey, died in a wrong-way wreck in Virginia Beach -- and police have charged a reality TV star with DWI in the crash.
Petty Officer 2nd Class Daniel Dill died after the car he was driving was struck head-on around 2 a.m. on Nov. 4, according to Virginia State Police.
He had been driving eastbound on I-264; the car that struck him was traveling westbound in the same lane.
Dill died of his injuries the next day at a nearby hospital.
Melissa Hancock, who appeared on Lifetimes "Little Women: Atlanta," was charged with driving while intoxicated/maiming and driving the wrong way.
Reality TV star Melissa Hancock, seen in her mug shot (l) after being arrested on DUI charges, and on her show, "Little Women: Atlanta."
Photo credit: VSP, Lifetime More charges are possible, state police said.
It was unclear if Hancock had an attorney who could comment on her behalf.
"It satisfies nothing in me to talk to her or about her," said Dill's father, Chris.
"I am just disgusted that her poor decision cost my son, who was making all the right decisions, his life.
It's just so unfair."
Dill, 29, was going to pick up his wife when he was struck.
His wife had been out celebrating, and Dill wanted to get her home safely.
Dill was a Logan Township, New Jersey, native who was stationed at the Command, Control and Communications Engineering Center at Base Portsmouth.
His two brothers also served in the Coast Guard; Dill had just returned from a mission to help rebuild Puerto Rico.
Dill will be buried with military honors on Saturday.
The cancellation of Louis C.Ks film I Love You, Daddy comes after The New York Times reported that five women accused the comedian of sexual misconduct.
Well, it probably seemed like a good idea at the time.
But Mila Kunis may have to look for another way to troll Vice President Mike Pence.
On a recent interview on "Conan," Kunis revealed she makes a monthly donation to Planned Parenthood in the vice president's name.
Pence is a staunch pro-life advocate.
"So, as a reminder that there are women out there in the world that may or may not agree with his platform, I put him on a list of reoccurring donations that are made in his name to Planned Parenthood," she said.
According to Kunis, the prank has resulted in Pence receiving a letter from Planned Parenthood every month alerting him of an anonymous donation made in his name.
"This is when a lot of hate mail comes my way," the actress told O'Brien.
"I apologize if I offend anybody."
That apology apparently fell short as the prank has led to a wave of criticism coming Kunis' way from Pence supporters.
Many critics are calling for a boycott against Jim Beam, the Kentucky-based bourbon whiskey for which Kunis serves as a national spokesperson.
Back in April, Trulia put together a round-up of the most expensive homes for sale in America.
A $175 million sprawling waterfront estate in Connecticut cracked the top five.
According to Christie's International Real Estate, which had the original listing, it's no longer available.
We have no idea who coughed up the cash for this incredible property, but take a look at what they got for their money.
An 85-year-old Norway spruce from Pennsylvania arrived in Manhattan on Saturday.
The tree will be decked out in 45,000 lights at a tree-lighting ceremony later this month.
Adam Kuperstein reports.
What to Know The 75-foot tall, 12-plus ton Norway spruce comes from the home of Jason Perrin in State College, Pennsylvania The tree arrived at the Plaza on Saturday and will be illuminated on live TV in a special on Wednesday, Nov. 29 The first Rockefeller Center Christmas tree was put up in 1931 by workers building the complex during the Great Depression Grab a cup of hot cider and dust off the Christmas cheer, one of the first signs of the holiday season made its gigantic entrance into New York City on Saturday.
The 75-foot-tall Norway spruce arrived by truck in midtown Manhattan early Saturday and was lifted into place by a giant crane to its seat of honor next to the iconic ice rink at Rockefeller Plaza.
See more pictures of the tree's journey here.
The tree, which weighs more than 12 tons, comes from the home of Jason Perrin in State College, Pennsylvania.
It was cut down Thursday morning before a horde of camera-ready spectators.
It is the 86th to grace the Plaza for the annual weeks-long display and the third from Pennsylvania.
"It's amazing, we've seen it just on TV and pictures of it, so to see it stand up is kind of a surreal moment," Darren Dickey, of Vancouver, said.
Erika Pauze, the head gardener for Rockefeller Center, said Thursday that she saw this year's tree while driving nearly seven years ago and was quick to ask if the owner was interested in making his backyard evergreen the most famous Christmas tree in the world.
"It's hard to find a tree that's nice and full that doesn't have any storm damage or is growing crooked or anything," she said.
After being adorned with more than 50,000 multi-colored lights and crowned with the iconic Swarovski star, the tree will be illuminated for the first time during a live television broadcast on Wednesday, Nov. 29.
It'll be on display until Jan. 7, 2018.
Last year's tree, a 94-foot Norway spruce from Angie and Graig Eichler in Oneonta, was the second largest ever chosen for the holiday celebration.
The first Rockefeller Center Christmas tree was put up in 1931 by workers building the complex during the Great Depression.
The first official tree lighting was in 1933.
After the holiday season, the Rockefeller trees are cut into boards and donated to Habitat for Humanity.
Flowers, powders and watermelon rinds may make it into your daily diet this year, according to Whole Foods Markets annual forecast.
The supermarket's global buyers and experts compiled a list of the 10 most anticipated food trends of 2018.
Check out the biggest food trends of next year, according to Whole Foods:
Patti Murin (Anna) and Caissie Levy (Elsa) with Jacob Smith in FROZEN Box office tickets for the "Frozen" Broadway musical will go on sale Monday morning, Disney producers have announced.
Starting at 10 a.m. on Nov. 13, a new block of tickets for the highly anticipated musical will go on sale at the St. James Theatre at 246 W. 44th St.
The box office is open from 10 a.m. through 8 p.m. Monday through Saturday.
Preview performances begin Thursday, Feb. 22, 2018, and the show opens Thursday, March 22.
They'll go through Sunday, Dec. 30, 2018.
Tickets are also currently on sale at FrozenTheMusical.com through Aug. 12, 2018, or by calling Disney on Broadway hotline at 866-870-2717.
Group tickets for 20 or more are available at DisneyTheatricalSales.com or 800-439-9000.
People can continue to buy tickets online once the box office opens.
"Frozen" joins Disney Theatrical shows "Aladdin" and "The Lion King on" on Broadway.
Broadway veterans Caissie Levy and Patti Murin are starring as sisters Elsa and Anna.
Shadows are reflected on an American Flag.
(Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images) Businesses across the nation are ready to show their appreciation for former and current members of the military this Veterans Day with deals and freebies.
Take a look below to see which deals you can score.
Applebee's Veterans and active military members can choose one of seven free meals being offered at participating Applebee's locations on Saturday, Nov. 11 when they dine in.
Proof of military service is required.
Boston Market Boston Market is offering a BOGO deal this Veterans Day.
When you buy one meal on Friday or Saturday, you get the second one free at participating locations.
You don't need an ID, but you do need a coupon that can be found here.
Buffalo Wild Wings Veterans and active military members can receive free small traditional or boneless wings and a side of fries when they dine in at participating locations on Saturday, Nov. 11.
Proof of military service is required.
Denny's Denny's is offering a free Build Your Own Grand Slam breakfast meal to active, inactive and military personnel between 5 a.m. and noon on Friday, Nov. 10.
Dunkin' Donuts Dunkin' Donuts is offering a free donut to anyone who shows a valid military ID at participating locations on Saturday, Nov. 11.
IHOP IHOP is offering a free stack of red, white and blue pancakes on Friday, Nov. 10 between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. at participating locations.
Wawa Wawa is offering a free coffee to all veterans, active military members and family members all day on Saturday, Nov. 11 at participating locations.
A popular snack food brand is publishing cryptic hints that it could be eliminating one of its treats from store shelves.
Which One Has to Go?
Little Debbie Hints at Treat Change A popular snack food brand is publishing cryptic hints that it could be eliminating one of its treats from store shelves.
Tennessee-based Little Debbie's social media team tweeted Wednesday a photo of four desert cakes Christmas Tree cakes, Oatmeal Creme Pies, Honey Buns and Nutty Buddy bars with the caption, "one gotta go forever..." The post quickly gained thousands of comments, with people offering rather passionate opinions on which cake should be axed.
The next day, a second tweet followed up, "We didn't say it would be easy."
McKee Foods, Little Debbie's parent company, hasn't offered an announcement and has not yet said how a decision would be made.
Wild Food Crazes: The $1,000 Bagel
What to Know Couples are more likely than ever to meet online and to use digital gadgets throughout the marriage process While proposers still experience many of the classic anxieties of purchasing a ring, they're also more likely to buy online When it comes to proposing itself, couples are increasingly taking the more traditional, on-bended-knee approach While many of the joys (and stresses) of getting married have continued through the generations, these days spouses-to-be are increasingly digitally dependent as they go about tying the knot, a new study says.
Couples are more likely than ever to meet online, with 19 percent of brides saying they met their partner through internet dating or social media in 2017.
Meeting through friends (17 percent), college (15 percent) and work (12 percent) were the runner-ups.
As for proposals, the average proposer spends 4.4 months planning it, with 7 percent of respondents saying it took a year or longer to get it down right.
Getting the engagement ring is still a taxing process, with proposers spending an average of 3.5 months looking for a ring, of which they go through about 26 before finding the right one.
They pay an average of $6,351 for a ring, according to the study by The Knot, a resource for couples looking to get married.
While a majority of grooms continue to purchase rings at retailers (86 percent) with nearly half (45 percent) heading to a local or independent jeweler for the purchase more and more of them are buying rings over the internet.
This year, 14 percent of grooms bought their engagement ring online compared to 10 percent in 2011.
They reported online purchases as being cheaper, more convenient and more customizable.
In the age of viral wedding proposals, it may not be surprising the study shows a shift away from private proposals, with 45 percent of them happening at a public location.
On top of that, photographers and videographers are capturing 47 percent of proposals.
While couples increasingly look to the internet to help them, time-honored traditions are becoming more popular for the proposal itself.
In fact, 9 in 10 grooms proposed with engagement ring in hand, using the words, Will you marry me?
The majority of grooms (87 percent) say they proposed on bended knee, up from 77 percent in 2011.
And grooms are more frequently asking for the permission of their partners family than in years past, with 78 percent seeking their support.
Perhaps most striking, once the proposal was wrapped up, nine in 10 couples reported using mobile devices to plan their wedding in 2016, the study said.
Comedian and actor Mike Myers' stunning Soho penthouse has gone on the market, listed with a cool $13.95 million price tag.
Marketed by Compass, the 3-4 bedroom apartment features a private roof deck and sits 7 storys above Soho's cobbled Mercer Street.
According to Curbed New York, Myers first listed the property in 2015 for just under $17 million.
He didn't sell it at that time, and now the price has dropped by just over $3 million.
If you're a ranch dressing fan, you understand the devastation of going to the store and staring, flabbergasted, at the shelves, desperate to find your favorite brand that simply isn't there.
Maybe it's out of stock, maybe someone else loaded up first.
Either way, the struggle is real.
But for those who love Hidden Valley, the struggle can be over.
A website called Flavour Gallery is now selling a "Hidden Valley mini ranch keg."
At 9.7 inches tall and 6.3 inches wide, it holds up to 5 liters of ranch dressing -- about a year's supply (for some).
The keg has a special inside coating that complies with FDA specifications and keeps the ranch tasting fresh.
Shipping begins Dec. 11, just in time for the holidays.
For what it's worth: The site also sells Hidden Valley ranch socks and onesies for babies, among other ranch-friendly items.
Those, however, are not edible.
Now You Can Quite Literally Have Breakfast at Tiffany's What to Know The Blue Box Cafe opens Friday at the lux jeweler's flagship Fifth Avenue location It's part of the new features on the newly renovated fourth floor; the menu includes flat fees for breakfast and lunch options "Both the caf and redesign of the Home & Accessories floor reflect a modern luxury experience, Tiffany's chief artistic office said Starting on Friday, you can actually have breakfast at Tiffany's.
The luxury jeweler introduced its "first ever retail dining concept," called The Blue Box Cafe, earlier this week as it unveiled a fourth-floor renovation of its Fifth Avenue flagship store in Manhattan.
Decked out in the famed Tiffany blue, the new cafe features a simple menu -- subject to change throughout the seasons -- of American classics made with regionally sourced ingredients and "reinvented to be uniquely Tiffany," the jeweler said.
For breakfast, diners can enjoy coffee and croissant for $29, served along with a choice of avocado toast, truffled eggs, buttermilk waffle or a smoked salmon bagel.
Lunch is a flat $39 fee and includes an appetizer and sandwich- or salad-style entree.
Vanity Fair described it as feeling as if you're dining inside one of Tiffany's iconic blue boxes.
The cafe will be open during regular business hours.
Eater published the full menu.
The redesigned fourth floor also houses Tiffany's new Home & Accessories collection, as well as a baby boutique, a fragrance laboratory and more.
"Both the caf and redesign of the Home & Accessories floor reflect a modern luxury experience, Reed Krakoff, chief artistic officer, Tiffany & Co., said in a statement.
The space is experimental and experiential a window into the new Tiffany.
Queue the Christmas songs, the 2017 Rockefeller Center Christmas tree has been cut down and is being prepped to head to New York City this weekend.
Pat Battle reports.
(Published Thursday, Nov. 9, 2017) What to Know The 75-foot tall, 12-plus ton Norway spruce comes from the home of Jason Perrin in State College, Pennsylvania The 75-foot tree will arrive in the Plaza on Saturday and be illuminated on live TV in a special on Wednesday, Nov. 29 The first Rockefeller Center Christmas tree was put up in 1931 by workers building the complex during the Great Depression Queue the Christmas songs: the 2017 Rockefeller Center Christmas tree has been cut down and is being prepped to head to New York City this weekend.
The 75-foot tall, 12-plus ton Norway spruce comes from the home of Jason Perrin in State College, Pennsylvania.
It was cut down Thursday morning before a horde of camera-ready spectators.
It will arrive at Rockefeller Center -- by flatbed, of course -- on Saturday.
The tree, 50 feet in diameter, will be the 86th to grace the Plaza for the annual weeks-long display and the third from Pennsylvania.
Rockefeller Center Christmas Tree Is Cut Down, Readies for Journey to NYC The 75-foot Norway spruce comes from the home of Jason Perrin in State College, Pennsylvania.
(Published Thursday, Nov. 9, 2017) Erika Pauze, the head gardener for Rockefeller Center, said Thursday that she saw this year's tree while driving nearly seven years ago and was quick to ask if the owner was interested in making his backyard evergreen the most famous Christmas tree in the world.
"It's hard to find a tree that's nice and full that doesn't have any storm damage or is growing crooked or anything," she said.
After being adorned with more than 50,000 multi-colored lights and crowned with the iconic Swarovski star, the tree will be illuminated for the first time during a live television broadcast on Wednesday, Nov. 29.
It'll be on display until Jan. 7, 2018.
Last year's tree, a 94-foot Norway spruce from Angie and Graig Eichler in Oneonta, was the second largest ever chosen for the holiday celebration.
The first Rockefeller Center Christmas tree was put up in 1931 by workers building the complex during the Great Depression.
The first official tree lighting was in 1933.
This month, people across the country will gather to indulge in the quintessential dishes of Thanksgiving.
But you'll have to go to New Jersey to find all those ingredients turkey, gravy, cranberry sauce, stuffing packed into one heaping, sandwichy ode to Turkey Day.
The Speakeatery in Asbury Park has found a way to incorporate stuffing (and let's be honest, it's the best part) into the classic Thanksgiving sandwich.
It's called the Turk Diggler and its buns are made of stuffing.
Whether it's a meat-centric restaurant or just a straight up steak house, Lauren Scala has three brand new options to satisfy your carnivore.
(Published Monday, Dec. 15, 2014) New York steakhouses are beloved for their vintage charm and classic recipes, but how do they stack up when compared to the rest of the country?
Thrillist has released a list of the "31 Best Steakhouses in America" and two New York City chophouses landed on the list.
Keens and Cote received honors while notable favorites, including Peter Luger, M. Wells and Sparks, just to name a few, were not included in the ranking.
Keens opened in 1885 in Herald Square and has hosted a countless number of celebrities and dignitaries since.
Diners have a delicious lineup of meats to choose from, but the restaurant's legendary mutton chops come highly recommended by customers and reviewers alike.
Cote, on the other hand, is new to the New York dining scene.
The Korean steakhouse opened in the summer of 2017.
At Cote, guests cook their own meat on tabletop grills.
Cote was recently awarded one star in the 2018 New York City Michelin Guide.
You can view the full list of NYCs Michelin-starred restaurants here.
"Mad Men" star Jon Hamm and his then-girlfriend Jennifer Westfeldt bought an absolutely divine two-bedroom penthouse in New York City's Upper West Side on West 67th Street for $2.5 million in 2013, but they broke up two years later, and now the 1,000 square-foot stunner is available for rent, according to Cottages & Gardens.
And it can be yours starting Dec. 1, for $14,995 a month.
The property is listed with Gino Filippone at Corcoran.
You can see the full listing with Corcoran here.
Jon Hamm's apartment is available for rent.
Lionel and Norman Wurts were prolific photographers of New York City, especially its architecture, during the first half of the 20th century.
They founded the first architectural photography studios in the city in 1894, according to the Museum of the City of New York.
For decades to come, they'd work with architects, engineers and rental agents to record the construction of landmarks like the Empire State Building as the city rapidly expanded.
The Wurts also captured street scenes and incredible bird's-eye view photos.
The Museum of City of New York has been cataloging 45,000 of their prints and negatives.
More of their photos can be found at the museum's online Collections Portal.
Disney fans say farewell to California Screamin' and other rides as California Adventure looks to transform Paradies Pier into a Pixar-themed land, the parks announced Thursday, Nov. 2, 2017.
It's the end of an era for Disney California Adventure as the Anaheim park says farewell to its coaster California Screamin' to make way for a Pixar-themed ride, the park announced Thursday.
That means shutting down the popular coaster, as well as other attractions, in order to make the changes.
The "Incredicoaster," and "Incredibles" themed ride, is part of a transformation of Paradise Pier into Pixar Pier, according to the Disney Parks Blog.
Disney fans say farewell to California Screamin' and other rides as California Adventure looks to transform Paradies Pier into a Pixar-themed land, the parks announced Thursday, Nov. 2, 2017.
Photo credit: Disney Parks Blog There will also be four new "imaginative neighborhoods," new entertainment, foods, drinks and stuff to buy.
The Pixar-specific village will debut during Pixar Fest, and event that kicks off April 13, 2018.
The revamping of the coaster comes just ahead of "The Incredibles 2" hitting theaters in June 2018.
The Incredicoaster will feature new special effects, music, and new scenes.
But wait - there's more.
Buzz and Woody fans can start getting excited as well.
One of the four new "neighborhoods" at the park will be "Toy Story Mania!"
An "Inside Out" neighborhood will also have Disney fanatics jumping for "Joy."
In preparation for all the big changes, California Screamin', along with Mickey's Fun Wheel, Games of the Boardwalk and Sideshow Shirts, will close Jan. 8.
"Little Mermaid" fans also have to say goodbye to Ariel's Grotto restaurant as well as the Cove Bar on Jan. 8.
They'll be transformed into a Pixar lounge.
But those aren't the only changes.
Paradise Gardens, Silly Symphony Swings, Jumping Jellyfish, Goofy's Sky School, Golden Zephyr and The Little Mermaid ~ Ariel's Undersea Adventure will all be revamped into the new village called Paradise Park.
The Michelin Guide has released its 2018 ratings for New York City and it is not all good news.
Within a year, the number of New York City Michelin-starred restaurants has dropped from 77 to 72.
Jean-Georges Vongerichten's flagship restaurant in Manhattan lost its three-star status, dropping to two stars for the first time since the Michelin Guide was established in 2006.
No local restaurant upgraded to the three-star category.
New York now has only five three-star restaurants, falling behind San Francisco, which have seven.
In happier news, sushi is up in 2018.
Only one restaurant was promoted to the two-star category.
Sushi Ginza Onodera, by chef Masaki Saito, jumped from one to two stars.
Three out of six new one-star restaurants serve Japanese cuisine.
Here is the full list of New York Citys Michelin-starred restaurants (and if you're looking for something unique in New Jersey, check this out): The 2018 Michelin Guide revealed its annual ranking of New York City Restaurants, and this handful of eateries earned 3 stars.
Ellen Barkin fended off a burglar who broke into her Greenwich Village apartment early Wednesday, holding a door to an outer balcony as he tried to push his way back inside, law enforcement sources familiar with the investigation told News 4 New York.
Marc Santia reports.
Ellen Barkin fended off a burglar who broke into her Greenwich Village apartment early Wednesday, holding a door to an outer balcony as he tried to push his way back inside, law enforcement sources familiar with the investigation told News 4 New York.
Sources said the 63-year-old actress was in her apartment on West 12th Street about 7 a.m. when she noticed a strange man; he was also inside and was heading to a third-floor balcony.
She shut the door to keep him outside and held it as he tried to muscle his way back in, the sources say.
The man was holding a bag of jewelry, though it's not clear if it belonged to Barkin.
He dropped the bag on the balcony, then jumped onto the fire escape and ran off.
NYPD canvassed the area but didn't find the suspect.
Barkin, who was born in the Bronx and has starred in films including "This Boy's Life" and "Sea of Love," was not hurt.
NBC 4 New York has left a message with a representative.
Actress Ellen Barkin Fends Off Burglar in Her Greenwich Village Home She was home Wednesday morning and noticed a stranger in the house.
(Published Thursday, Nov. 2, 2017) Barkin was not hurt.
The suspect is described as being in his 20s and about 150 pounds.
He was last seen wearing a black skull cap, a light hooded sweater, jeans and carrying a black bookbag.
Anyone with information about the break-in is asked to call Crime Stoppers at 1-800-577-TIPS.
A new smartphone wants to raise the level of mobile gaming with a bolder display and more power.
The Razer Phone, an Android smartphone, boasts a 120Hz display and a large battery to keep users energized for hours of use and gaming.
The new device has a UltraMotion display with a refresh rate that is double most other smartphones.
The 5.72-inch LCD screen is designed for no lag or stuttering while producing clear and colorful images.
The phone has an aluminum body and is powered by Android Nougat with 8GB of RAM.
While it contains a 4,000 mAh battery, it also remains cool to the touch, thanks to internal thermal diffusers.
But the Razer Phone is designed to be a video and gaming device.
Dual rear 12 megapixel cameras provide amazing images at nearly any distance.
Dolby Atmos brings cinematic audio through two front speakers with dedicated amplifiers.
But what about the games?
Razer is partnering with Square Enix, Tencent and others to provide exciting and competitive gaming to smartphones.
Arena of Valor, a multiplayer online battle arena, will let players battle each other in team fights.
"The future of gaming is rapidly expanding to mobile devices, and both Razer and Tencent are at the forefront of fast-tracking development," said Vincent Gao, global marketing director at Tencent Games.
"Arena of Valor brings gamers a fast-paced, competitive experience, and the Razer phone was built to handle the visuals, sound and quick-reflex mechanics of the game."
Other popular titles include Final Fantasy XV Pocket Edition, Tekken, World of Tanks Blitz, and Titanfall: Assault.
The games are being optimized for the Razer Phone to run from 60 frames per second up to 120 frames per second, keeping the action clean and responsive.
The phone will be priced at $699.99 in the United States, and preorders begin on Nov. 1.
The phone will go on sale at Razerzone.com, select Microsoft Stores, and Amazon.com on Nov. 17.
Samuel Adams just released a new limited-edition beer (at $199 per bottle) with an alcohol content so high, it is illegal to sell in 12 states.
The Boston brewery announced the beer called Utopias would be released to stores in early November.
Only 13,000 bottles of Utopias, a beer with an alcohol content of 28 percent, more than 10 percent above the legal limit of some states, will be distributed in the entire country -- minus the dozen states where it's illegal.
You won't be able to find it in Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Idaho, Mississippi, Montana, New Hampshire, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Vermont or Washington, where state liquor laws bar it from being available for sale.
Interested?
The brewery describes the beverage as "reminiscent of a rich vintage Port, old Cognac, or fine Sherry with notes of dark fruit, subtle sweetness, and a deep rich malty smoothness."
Samuel Adams just released a new limited-edition beer (at $199 per bottle) with an alcohol content so high, it is illegal to sell in 12 states.
The Boston brewery just announced the beer called Utopias would be released to stores, including in the tri-state area, in early November.
Only 13,000 bottles of Utopias, a beer with an alcohol content of 28 percent.
More than 10 points above the percent alcohol by volume limit for beer in some states, Utopias will be distributed in the entire country -- minus the dozen states where it's illegal.
You won't be able to find it in Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Idaho, Mississippi, Montana, New Hampshire, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Vermont or Washington, where state liquor laws bar it from being available for sale.
Interested?
The brewery describes the beverage as "reminiscent of a rich vintage Port, old Cognac, or fine Sherry with notes of dark fruit, subtle sweetness, and a deep rich malty smoothness."
A giant Norway Spruce from State College, Pennsylvania, has been selected as the Rockefeller Center Christmas tree.
Here's a closer look at the majestic tree.
Residents are putting out teal pumpkins to help kids with allergies know where they can find treats they can enjoy.
Lyft and 'Stranger Things' Team Up To Take You to the 'Upside Down' Ever want to be part of the hit Netflix series Stranger Things?
Lyft has introduced Strange Mode in Los Angeles and Philadelphia, giving riders an immersive experience inside the world of the Netflix thriller.
Lauren Scala checks out 3 amazing pizza places which have expanded to our area.
(Published Tuesday, Sept. 12, 2017) With so many delicious pizzas to choose from in New York City, it may seem like an impossible task to declare just one that you cant miss.
But website Thrillist put itself to the task and released a list of the "must-visit" pizzerias in Americas biggest cities.
The representative for New York City?
Prince Street Pizza.
Thrillist described the iconic pizzeria as "a no-frills, by-the-slice joint known for Sicilian squares and long lines."
The popular square pies at the NoLita eatery are named after neighborhood streets and draw lines around the block.
Once you actually make it inside, Thrillist suggests ordering the Spicy Spring, a Sicilian slice with spicy tomato sauce, fresh mozzarella and crispy pepperoni.
To be fair, even Thrillist wasnt able to pick just one New York City pizzeria.
(Can you blame them?)
The site also included Robertas in Bushwick as a bonus on their list.
Take a look at the 46 local pizzerias that have been named the best in America here.
Just off California's coastline, whales of all sorts shoot into the air, feast on food and glide through the cool ocean water every day.
A photographer who posts his snapshots on Instagram has been lucky enough to catch the creatures in action over the past couple months.
Tucked away in the sub-basement of the Roundabout Underground in Times Square, just a few blocks away from where some are paying otherworldly ticket prices for "Hamilton" or Bruce Springsteen's one man show, may be one of Off-Broadway's best kept secrets.
"Too Heavy For Your Pocket," a new play written by Jirh Breon Holder starring Brandon Gill, Hampton Fluker, Eboni Flowers and Nneka Okafor, was just extended one week and will now conclude its run at Roundabout's Black Box Theatre on Nov. 26.
The play chronicles the lives of two African American couples in the early 1960's during the heat of the civil rights movement.
Their futures are thrown into turmoil after one of their group decides to forsake a life-altering college scholarship to join the Freedom Riders.
The original Freedom Riders consisted of 13 African American and white civil rights activists who launched the Freedom Rides on May 4, 1961 -- a movement that consisted of a series of bus trips through the American South to protest segregation in interstate bus terminals.
The Freedom Riders attempted to integrate facilities at bus terminals along the way into the Deep South.
African American Freedom Riders tried to use whites-only restrooms and lunch counters, encountering violence from white protesters along the route while drawing international attention to their cause.
Gill, who the plays the character of Bowzie Brandon, was introduced to the project when the playwright said the part was written specifically with him in mind.
"The writer was a friend first and he writes to your strengths.
So there are a lot of characteristics between Bowzie and myself that we definitely share," Brandon says.
"There are similarities in terms of being a dreamer and wanting to reach outside the little space that you grew up in."
Flowers, who plays Gill's bold and sassy wife Evelyn, says the material spoke to her in a deeply instinctual way.
"As a southerner, especially being from Montgomery, I feel like these conversations and dialogue were always prevalent in my family," she says.
"So I was familiar with Dr. King's journey and that of the Freedom Riders and the four little girls [murdered on Sept. 15, 1963 after a bomb detonated beneath the steps of the 16th Street Baptist Church].
These have always been active conversations in my family.
So this is just a deeper dive into the narrative."
Both performers believe that while the play focuses on the events of the 1960s, it has never been more relevant than it is today, in 2017, as professional athletes take a knee in the face of social injustices and women across the country speak out against sexual harassment and abuse in the form of the #MeToo movement.
"There's never an opportune time for people of color to speak out against adversity," says Gill. "
It always seem an inconvenience to privilege or disrespectful in some way.
At the same time it has to be done.
So just do it when you're ready."
Adds Flowers, "It doesnt stop with the Freedom Riders.
They are part of a much bigger picture.
I think about #MeToo and the women's struggle thats happening right now with being transparent about things that have been going on.
There are so many different things to be active about, including being a black person, and the things that we need and want and the dignity that we continue to fight for."
The extension week will include three special performances reserved for New York City students from schools affiliated with Roundabout's expansive education program.
Information regarding tickets for the show can be found on the Roundabout website.
Now's the time to believe in unicorns.
Drop, an app that offers members cash rewards for spending with their favorite brands, is going to be handing out free cash with a unicorn at several secret locations in Manhattan on Tuesday as part of a promotion.
Find the unicorn -- get free cash.
Simple, right?
We're not sure what denominations the unicorn plans to hand out, but, again, it's free cash.
As for Drop, the app is free and lets users accrue points by connecting their credit or debit cards.
Points are then redeemed for cash rewards, like an Amazon gift card, for example.
Click here to learn more about how it works.
Follow @earnwithdrop on Twitter or Facebook to find out the specific secret locations.
HINT: It starts at noon at the corner of Broadway and West 28th Street.
More than 500 animals attended the 27th Annual Tompkins Square Halloween Dog Parade in Tompkins Square Park in the East Village on Saturday.
The event is known as one of the largest Halloween events for dogs in the country.
Ashley Bellman visits some of they city's spookiest sites
Some Halloween treats are trickier than others when it comes to sugar and calories.
Here's a better way to dip into your kids' candy stash.
NBC News worked with experts to size up the nutritional labels of some of the most popular Halloween candies, with a strong focus on calories, portion size and sugar content, so you can make better choices in the lead-up to Oct. 31.
(To keep things in perspective, the American Heart Association recommends limiting added sugar intake to 37 grams for men and 25 for women per day.)
Top Picks Nutritionist Pick #1: Trolli Sour Bit Crawlers One serving eight pieces of these brightly colored gummy worms comes in at 100 calories and 14 grams of sugar.
Nutritionist Pick #2: Snack-Size Reese's Peanut Butter Cups A single peanut butter cup has 110 calories and 11 grams of sugar.
Nutritionist Pick #3: Charms Blow Pop Although this lollipop with gum in the center has 13 grams of sugar, its only 70 calories.
The Best and Worst of the Rest (In That Order) Snicker Miniatures Twix Caramel Cookie Bars Mini Kit Kat Minis Twizzlers Strawberry Twists Tootsie Roll Minis Brach's Candy Corn
Meet the bakers who are partying with the fans who order knafeh, the popular Middle Eastern dessert with a special spin.
At Knafeh New York, you'll find only the eponymous dessert on the menu.
It'll be served by men in white dancing to thumping music inside a tricked-out shipping container.
Yes, there's a lot to process for an eatery that sticks to a one-item menu.
The knafehs are being dished up at the first New York outpost of the Australian bakery, which has made appearances at the Queens Night Market and the 3rd Avenue Festival in Bay Ridge.
As you order your knafeh, you'll see the so-called bearded bakers ladling batter into plates, spritzing rose water wash with grand arcs of the arm, and drizzling syrup with flourish, all making for entertaining dessert theater.
But it's interactive, too: they dance and beat on drums and jump over the counter to dance with the crowd as music plays.
The creamy knafeh is then presented in a small pie plate, the top torched over so that it's like a creme brulee, complete with a sweet crunchy coating that cracks open with the most satisfying of whacks.
Feeling naughty... indulge in a Knafeh tomorrow night at the @queensnightmarket.
6pm till midnight.
New York Hall of Science.
Sunday: 10am - 6pm.
7510 3rd Avenue, Brooklyn.
11209.
@anahidddd #knafeh #knafehbakery #knafehnewyork #beardedbakers A post shared by knafehnewyork (@knafehnewyork) on Oct 13, 2017 at 3:25pm PDT While a sweet staple all across the Middle East, this particular recipe for knafeh happens to be created by founder Ameer El-Issa's mother back in Sydney.
It became a cult hit when it landed on the menu at a restaurant he was helping to open at the time, and when the restaurant became overwhelmed by the demand, El-Issa decided to create a concept space devoted exclusively to the dessert.
Meet Mama & The Bearded Bakers !!
This week's location: Saturday: @queensnightmarket 6pm - midnight.
Sunday: Third Avenue Festival.
Bayridge, Brooklyn.
10am - 6pm @tkny86 #mamabaker #beardedbakers #knafeh #knafehbakery #knafehnewyork #smile A post shared by knafehnewyork (@knafehnewyork) on Oct 12, 2017 at 12:23pm PDT He drew on his background as an architect and an old dream of creating something out of shipping containers (he'd done a case study on them while in school) -- and the box-based Knafeh bakery was born.
The Knafeh New York shipping container was outfitted in Sydney and shipped from there over water, taking six weeks to arrive in New York.
It's been open for business for about a month here, and also has locations in Sydney, where it launched three years ago, and in Melbourne.
El-Issa, whose father was born in Jerusalem and mother in Jordan, says he comes from a family where "we were always surrounded by food and people," and learned the pleasure of eating was just as much about the experience as the product.
Wild Food Crazes: The $1,000 Bagel There's no rhyme or reason to how they have fun, El-Issa says -- they just go with the flow, and the music they play follows no set playlist.
There's a bit of European and Middle Eastern music, there's some hip-hop and R&B, there are classic American standards.
"We feel like it's very hard to have knafeh and not be happy," El-Issa said simply.
The Bearded Bakers took on Brooklyn !!
A day to remember.
Thank you Brooklyn, thank you New York.
Stay tuned for next appearance.
#beardedbakers #knafehnewyork #knafehbakery #brooklyn #atlanticantic #newyork A post shared by knafehnewyork (@knafehnewyork) on Sep 24, 2017 at 7:01pm PDT Knafeh New York been set up at the Queens Night Market the past few Saturdays, and will be there again for the last weekend of the season, on Oct. 21.
Knafeh has also set up shop in Bay Ridge the past few Sundays and made other appearances around town.
It will head across the Hudson to New Jersey on the weekend of Oct. 28 and 29.
"Queens has been amazing, Brooklyn's been incredible," El-Issa said of the month that he's been in New York so far with the entire Knafeh team from Sydney (including his mother).
He's hoping to eventually recruit local "bakers and shakers" to start running the shop, then has his eyes set on expanding internationally.
"Once we can make it in New York, we can make it anywhere."
To see where Knafeh will set up next in New York, follow them on Facebook and Instagram.
Wild Food Crazes: The $1,000 Bagel
The $1,000 bagel is back in New York City.
The Westin New York hotel in Times Square is offering the extravagant bagel for a limited time next month, 10 years after it was first introduced on the menu.
The bagel, from New Yorker Bagels, will be dressed in Alba white truffle cream cheese, topped with goji berry-infused Riesling jelly and flaked with golden leaves.
The $1,000 bagel at Westin New York Photo credit: Westin New York Pound for pound, the white truffle is the second most expensive food in the world, after caviar, according to a spokeswoman for the hotel.
The delicacy is grown in the Alba region of Italy beneath certain oak trees, and trained dogs or pigs are necessary to locate them.
Production of the truffles is extremely limited, and they're in season from late autumn to winter.
The spokeswoman says the Alba white truffles are the "star" of the bagel creation and the main contributor to the four-digit price tag.
America's Best and Worst Supermarkets Revealed Tax and tip are included in the $1,000 bagel, which is available for order via 24-hour room service or at the hotel's Foundry Bar during breakfast hours.
A spokeswoman for The Westin says ever since the $1,000 bagel made its first brief appearance in the fall of 2007, "requests for this over-the-top bagel have come in yearly without fail."
"Considering how pricing has risen in the past decade (try buying an apartment for the same price as it was in 2007), this bagel at its introductory cost is nearly a deal," says the hotel.
But the bagel buyers needn't feel too bad about such a lavish expense -- 100 percent of the proceeds will be donated to Holy Apostles Soup Kitchen.
The $1,000 bagel will be offered from Nov. 1 through Dec. 15 and must be ordered 24 hours in advance.
46 Local Pizzas Land on Annual List of America's Best
Sting's stunningly unique duplex penthouse on Central Park West is now off the market, having sold for a whopping $50 million, according to Page Six.
The legendary musician poured more than a bit of his own character into the design.
Take a look inside.
See more homes for sale with Sotheby's International Realty here.
The musician's penthouse, on the market for $56 million, has been called an "architectural tour de force" by Sotheby's.
Neiman Marcus launched their annual Christmas Book of fantasy gifts for the 2017 holiday season on Tuesday, with the least expensive item being an Omy Coloring book for $9 and the priciest a private New Year's party for $1.6 million.
Company officials revealed this year's catalog at Park Place Premier Collection dealership in Dallas, saying the items were curated from hundreds of submissions.
Neiman Marcus 2017 Fantasy Gifts These gifts will exceed expectations through exceptional experiences and one-of-a-kind objects that only Neiman Marcus can curate, said Jim Gold, president and chief merchandising officer for Neiman Marcus Group.
The 300-page 2017 Christmas Book features more than 780 holiday gifts.
Nearly 50 percent of the items are under $250.
The most expensive fantasy gift is a private New Year's party for you and 299 of your closest friends atop New York's Knickerbocker Hotel, with $80,000 of the $1.6 million price tag being donated to charity.
This year's catalog also includes "an aerial photo session with Gray Malin, a pampering experience in Paris with Sisley, and a bespoke handbag collection and Parisian experience with Olympia Le-Tan."
The Yours & Mine Fantasy Gift is a pair of Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Limited-Edition Dawns in two color options.
First published in 1926 as a 16-page booklet, the Neiman Marcus Christmas Book was initially intended as a Christmas card to the stores best customers.
Through the years, the book has maintained its personal touch while evolving into a legendary source for alluring and mystical gifts.
"Theres something that creates that wit and whimsy that only Neiman Marcus can create for our customers.
We work all year round with a team of our associates to come up with and create these experiences like none other.
Something that will really surprise and delight our customers," said Vice President Neiman Marcus Corporate Communications Mimi Sterling.
Among this year's fantasy gifts is one promising to give back 100 percent of its proceeds.
Dallas based Paper for Water's origami ornaments are $50, which its young founders say can provide water for someone for a lifetime.
Without water you cant live.
You cant work.
It also enables kids to go to school because they dont have to spend their whole day hauling water.
They try to position the wells so that nobody has to walk more than 30 minutes to get clean water.
Thats just a huge time saver, and it enables people to start businesses and try to get out of poverty, said Katherine Adams.
A portion of all other fantasy gifts will be donated to the Heart of Neiman Marcus Foundation, which provides art education for kids.
MORE: Neiman Marcus Christmas Book
From a paranormal hotel in Brooklyn to a hayride on an eerie family farm, there are plenty of haunted attractions to check out across the tri-state this Halloween season.
Most of them are in the $20 to $50 range and are open rain or shine through early November.
Tickets tend to be cheaper online and some places give deals for matinees and weekday visits.
Ashley Bellman visits some of they city's spookiest sites
In this Monday, March 1, 2010, file photo, an Arby's restaurant sign is shown in Cutler Bay, Fla. Arby's announced Wednesday that it will be selling its venison sandwich at all 3,300 restaurants nationwide starting on Oct. 21, after releasing it in five states last year.
The sandwich features a thick-cut venison steak marinated in garlic, salt and pepper and cooked sous-vide for three hours, "Today" reported.
The meat is then topped with onions and a juniper berry sauce, all served on a toasted roll.
The sandwich will only be available while supplies last.
The nationwide rollout comes after Arby's sold it in 17 locations most of them in popular deer-hunting hot spots like Wisconsin, Tennessee and rural Pennsylvania last fall.
Arby's also will be selling an elk meat sandwich in just three locations in Colorado, Wyoming and Montana.
From baroque romance-inspired outfits to mini sparklers and edgy twists, New York's Bridal Fashion Week was rife with unique and glamorous wedding dresses.
Here's a look at some of the top looks from designers including Vera Wang, Naeem Khan and Marchesa.
The Smithsonian National Museum of American History has accepted artifacts from AMCs award-winning television series The Walking Dead."
Cast members, including Norman Reedus, Danai Gurira, Andrew Lincoln and Lennie James, attended the donation ceremony and presented some props that viewers may recognize from the past seven seasons.
Artifacts from the hit show The Walking Dead were donated to the Smithsonian National Museum of American History in Washington, D.C.
If you live in the tri-state area, it should come as no surprise that nearly half of America's best pizzas are located in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.
The Daily Meal has released its annual list of the 101 Best Pizzas in America and the tri-state has claimed 46 spots, including spots one, two and three.
In fact, eight of the top 10 pizzas in the country are right here in the tri-state, according to the ranking.
Shocking no one, Frank Pepe's white clam pie claimed the top spot.
Here's a look at every other tri-state pizza that made the list: The "DoughDici" pizza is all the rage right now and Joelle stops by Sofia Pizza Shoppe to find out how you can snatch tickets to devour the delicious and very exclusive $38 pie.
Jennifer Lopez has put her $26.95 million Midtown penthouse on the market, according to reports.
The condo sits atop the Whitman, a luxury, boutique condominium on East 26th Street.
Lopez and her beau Alex Rodriguez are reportedly searching for a new place to call home and the pop musician is looking to sell the 6,540-square-foot duplex and all the amenities that come with it, including a rooftop putting garden and shallow terrace, Curbed.com reported.
Real estate broker Adam Modlin of The Modlin Group has listed the penthouse as "the crown jewel of The Whitman," the luxury four-condo building the penthouse sits atop.
Jennifer Lopez has pledged to donate $1 million from her Las Vegas show to help Puerto Rico recover from Hurricane Maria.
Gov.
Cuomo also announced a website to organize the recovery effort in the state.
New York Comic Con returned to the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center Thursday to bring together some of pop cultures biggest fans.
People eagerly walked through security in full costume to join thousands of comic book and pop culture fans.
In 2016, an estimated 185,000 fans attended Comic Con New York, this year the event is completely sold out.
The event runs through Sunday.
NY Live pays a visit to NY Comic Con 2017 and meets some very interesting characters.
Kidnapping victim Elizabeth Smart is pleased with how a Lifetime movie and documentary she helped produce about her harrowing ordeal turned out.
But she said her visit to the movie set brought back terrible memories when she saw actor Skeet Ulrich looking so similar to the man who abducted her.
The upcoming film titled "I Am Elizabeth Smart" follows the nine months after Smart, then 14, was kidnapped by Brian Mitchell from her bedroom in her Salt Lake City home in 2002 and was raped daily by her captor, the Deseret News reported .
Police finally found her in Sandy with the help of two couples who recognized Mitchell from media reports as a suspect in Smart's kidnapping.
Mitchell was convicted and is serving a life sentence for the crime.
The movie features newcomer Alana Boden as Smart, Deirdre Lovejoy who portrays Mitchell's estranged wife Wanda Barzee, who aided in the kidnapping and Ulrich as Mitchell.
Smart was on the set for part of the filming, narrated the movie and gave feedback to executive producers Joseph Freed and Allison Berkley.
She especially wanted to help them find a balance between keeping the integrity of her gruesome experience and not being too graphic.
"Certainly a lot of very bad things happen, and I thought, 'How could you possibly show that without it either coming off as dark and terrible and give you nightmares at night,' or sugar-coating everything and making it seem like, 'Oh, this terrible thing happened but it really wasn't that bad, and then a miracle happened?'
" she said.
While she enjoyed meeting the actors, Smart said in an interview with Deseret News that she felt uncomfortable when they asked her to take a photo with them.
"It was just this weird experience because I was sitting there like, 'They're lovely people, but I don't know if I should smile because they don't look like lovely people,'" she said.
"They look like my worst nightmare."
The movie will premiere Saturday, Nov. 18.
A two-part documentary titled "Elizabeth Smart: Autobiography," in which Smart shares more details about the horrific situation she survived, her rescue and what her life is like now, will be premiered on A&E Nov. 12-13.
Information from: Deseret News, http://www.deseretnews.com
If Rebecca Corry could have done anything differently after her interaction with the now-disgraced comedian Louis C.K., she told "Good Morning America" she would have spoken out sooner.
Interested in Louis CK?
Add Louis CK as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Louis CK news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest Corry, who was one of five women who spoke to the New York Times last week about the comedian's alleged misconduct, says she was working on a pilot in 2005 when Louis C.K.
asked if he could masturbate in front of her.
She told her superiors about her experience with the comedian, which she said led to a "very spirited conversation" about "what to do and liability issues and ethical issues."
At the time, she decided not to press the matter any further.
Laura Cavanaugh/FilmMagic via Getty Images "[I]n the end, I was given the decision on what to do and I chose to go on with the show and not shut down production or take any action.
I just did not want to have anything to do with shutting down production and having Louis C.K.
removed," Corry told "GMA."
"I wanted to sort of pretend like it never happened.
I wanted to do my job."
But she regrets her decision to do nothing, Corry added -- especially since Louis C.K.
's conduct has been an open secret in the comedy world, she claims, for more than a decade.
"People made jokes about it all the time," she said.
"If I could do anything differently, it would be that day, I would have shut down production.
I would have confronted it.
I would have dealt with it then.
Because I have learned that doing nothing, saying nothing is not helpful."
Corry said that Louis C.K.
's power in the comedy world, plus the allegiance fellow comedians have to each other make it an uncomfortable place to speak out.
Exclusive: 5 women tell NYT that Louis C.K.
crossed a line into sexual misconduct https://t.co/GYl09W0uW2 The New York Times (@nytimes) November 9, 2017 On Friday, Louis C.K.
responded to the allegations, writing, "These stories are true."
"I want to address the stories told to The New York Times by five women named Abby, Rebecca, Dana, Julia who felt able to name themselves and one who did not," he wrote.
"These stories are true.
At the time, I said to myself that what I did was okay because I never showed a woman my d--- without asking first, which is also true.
But what I learned later in life, too late, is that when you have power over another person, asking them to look at your d--- isnt a question.
Its a predicament for them.
The power I had over these women is that they admired me.
And I wielded that power irresponsibly."
After the original story in the Times, the New York City premiere of Louis C.K.
's film "I Love You, Daddy" was canceled, and the distribution company for the film announced that it would "not be moving forward with the release."
In addition, Netflix announced it was canceling Louis C.K.
's second stand-up special, and the network FX, which airs his Emmy award-winning show "Louie," said it was parting ways with the comedian.
It's been a stellar year for Tiffany Haddish, who made history this past weekend as the first black female stand-up comedian to host "Saturday Night Live."
But the journey to reach this point has not been an easy one for the 37-year-old breakout star of "Girls Trip."
As Haddish alluded to in her opening monologue Saturday, she spent part of her childhood living in foster care.
If not for her social worker, she might never have pursued a career in comedy.
NBCU Photo Bank via Getty Images Here's what you need to know about this comedian on the rise: Finding her father Haddish's mother is African-American and her father was an Eritrean refugee raised in a Jewish family.
When Haddish was three years old, her father left the family and remained absent throughout the rest of her childhood.
Her mother remarried and went on to have four more children.
Haddish reunited with her father after her husband-to-be helped find him.
Although Haddish's marriage ended in divorce after five years, she called her wedding day, where her father walked her down the aisle, "one of the happiest days of my life."
Foster care When Haddish was nine, her mother was in a car accident and suffered brain damage, which the comedian says triggered her mother's mental disorders.
Haddish had to become the caretaker for her younger siblings, she told the radio show The Breakfast Club in an interview this past summer.
"I remember the day my mom came out the hospital," she said.
"The doctor pulled me to the side and said, 'Look, shes never gonna be the person that she was -- its time for you to grow up now.'"
For the next three years, Haddish took care of her four siblings until the family was split up and the children put into foster care.
Comedy to the rescue Frequently in trouble in high school, Haddish was given an ultimatum by her social worker: either go into therapy or attend the Laugh Factory Comedy Camp.
Haddish chose the latter.
Comedy became an outlet for the naturally funny Haddish, who got instruction and advice from some of the top comedians, including legends like Richard Pryor.
She told the Los Angeles Times that Pryor once told her that she needed to having more fun on stage.
"I took that philosophy with me and I do that in everything that I do," she told the paper.
From first break to breakout star Universal Studios After years of doing stand-up, Haddish was finally cast in the OWN series "If Loving You Is Wrong."
She left the nighttime soap the first season when she was cast in a regular role opposite David Alan Grier and Loretta Devine in the NBC sitcom "The Carmichael Show," which completed its final season earlier this year.
But it's Haddish's breakout role as Dina in the hit film "Girls Trip," starring Regina Hall, Queen Latifah and Jada Pinkett Smith, that has put her on the path to stardom.
Now, Haddish is on her way to a new sitcom, co-starring Tracy Morgan, and a new film, "Night School," opposite Kevin Hart.
She also has a book about her life -- "The Last Black Unicorn" -- coming out next month.
Carrie Underwood is recovering after suffering a broken wrist and other injuries, her rep told ABC News.
The accident happened Friday, two days after the country music singer hosted the 51st annual CMA Awards in Nashville.
"On Friday night, Carrie Underwood took a hard fall on some steps outside her home," her rep said in a statement.
"While there were no life-threatening injuries, she was taken to the hospital to be treated.
She sustained multiple injuries including a broken wrist and some cuts and abrasions from the fall."
Rick Diamond/Getty Images, FILE Underwood, 34, lives in Nashville with her husband, Mike Fisher.
The singer's rep added that Fisher, 37, "was able to make it back into town that night to be with her and she was released from the hospital."
Taylor Hill/Getty Images, FILE "Her recovery will take some time and she appreciates all prayers and well wishes," the statement concluded.
After news of her accident broke, Underwood thanked fans for their support.
"Thanks so much for all the well wishes everybody...I'll be alright...might just take some time," she wrote on Facebook Sunday.
"Glad I've got the best hubby in the world..." Due to her injuries, Underwood was forced to cancel her performance at the Country Rising benefit concert tonight in Nashville, according to the Tennessean.
While her character Rey became an instant favorite with "Star Wars" fans around the globe, young and old, Daisy Ridley gave her 2015 "Force Awakens" performance a big thumbs-down.
Interested in Star Wars?
Add Star Wars as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Star Wars news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest "I didn't think I was good in the first film, and I was struggling with that," she told Elle U.K. in an interview released Monday afternoon.
She didn't expand on why she hated her performance, but perhaps it was director J.J. Abrams' calling her performance "wooden" on the first day of shooting that shook her confidence.
"I honestly wanted to die," she recalled to Glamour in 2015.
"I thought I was gonna cry, I couldnt breathe."
However, for "The Last Jedi," Ridley's second go in the galaxy far, far away, she seems to be feeling more at ease.
It took some time given the powerful fan base and hype behind "Star Wars."
"I was thinking I did the first one because I didn't really know what I was getting myself into and I was having loads of fun, and suddenly I'm realizing what this actually is, and I can't f------ do this," she explained to Elle.
"Finally, I was like 'Oh yeah, this is working.'"
But she teases that this film will be different, especially in terms of her onscreen companions.
"It's not this big adventure that I'm on with John [Boyega]," she said of the actor who plays Finn.
Instead, Rey will have more screen time with Mark Hamill's legendary Jedi, Luke Skywalker, as seen in previous trailers.
Star Wars/YouTube Star Wars/YouTube But will the duo be able to co-exist and learn from each other?
That remains to be seen.
But lucky for fans, they only have one month to go.
"Star Wars: The Last Jedi" opens December 15 from Lucasfilm, which is owned by Disney, the parent company of ABC News.
Christopher Plummer wants to make it clear that he isn't replacing Kevin Spacey in the upcoming film, "All the Money in the World."
Interested in Kevin Spacey?
Add Kevin Spacey as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Kevin Spacey news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest It was announced last week that Plummer, 87, would step in for Spacey, 58, in the Ridley Scott film after multiple sexual misconduct allegations have emerged against the former "House of Cards" star.
The film was set to be released next month and there were questions about how this timetable could be kept while pulling an actor completely out of the movie only to put another into scenes already shot.
"It isnt replacing.
In a funny way its starting all over again because its going to be different, naturally," Plummer told Entertainment Tonight.
Frazer Harrison/Getty Images Spacey was to play J. Paul Getty in the Oscar-buzzy biopic, but the film removed the beleaguered star days after actor Anthony Rapp claimed Spacey made an unwanted advance toward him when he was just 14 years old.
Spacey issued an apology in the wake of Rapp's accusations, saying, "I honestly do not remember the encounter, it would have been over 30 years ago.
But if I did behave then as he describes, I owe him the sincerest apology for what would have been deeply inappropriate drunken behavior."
I came forward with my story, standing on the shoulders of the many courageous women and men who have been speaking out 1/3 Anthony Rapp (@albinokid) October 30, 2017 Later, Richard Dreyfuss' son, Harry, accused Spacey of unwanted groping, along with Heather Unruh, who claims the Oscar-winning actor brought her son "drink after drink" and then groped his genitals at a restaurant bar in Nantucket, Massachusetts, in July 2016.
Thanks to anyone who's ever spoken out.
I add my story in the hope predators learn there will always be consequences https://t.co/DezeSnr6Gj HarryDreyfuss (@harrydreyfuss) November 4, 2017 Spacey did not respond to requests for comments on the latest accusations or on being replaced in the film.
"The whole circumstance is sad," Plummer told ET.
"But Ive got to forget that and go and do it, because its a very well-written script and Ridley has been very good."
Plummer said the film is slated to begin re-shoots next Monday.
"It's quite a push," he said.
Tiffany Haddish made history Saturday night, becoming the first black female stand-up comedian to host "Saturday Night Live" in its 43 seasons.
In her opening monologue, Haddish talked about her newfound stardom after starring in the blockbuster "Girls Trip," released earlier this year.
She told the audience that after Googling herself, she discovered that she was worth $2 million.
Will Heath/NBCU Photo Bank via Getty Images "What do I need to do to get this money?"
asked Haddish, 37.
"Fake my own death?
Tupac this and move to Tyler Perry Island?"
Haddish touched on other topics such as her childhood growing up in foster care, her failed marriage, Donald Trump's hair and celebrities' speaking out about sexual harassment in Hollywood.
The comedian was also featured in several sketches on the show, including one in which she portrayed a "Mortal Kombat"style fighter named Boo Boo Jeffries and another as a guest on a fake talk show called "Get Woke With Tamika."
Haddish also played rapper Cardi B. and singer Mary J. Blige in a sketch about all the celebs who auditioned for the recently announced "Lion King" remake.
(This wasn't real, obviously.)
The sketch also featured portrayals of Kit Harington, L.L.
Cool J and Oprah Winfrey.
Featured on the show with Haddish was musical guest Taylor Swift.
Kim Kardashian West celebrated the forthcoming arrival of her third child with husband Kanye West by throwing a cherry-blossom themed baby shower over the weekend.
Interested in Kardashians?
Add Kardashians as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Kardashians news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest The reality star, who is expecting via a surrogate, shared videos from the baby shower on her SnapChat account on Saturday.
"OK guys, [here's] my baby shower for baby number three.
It's just a 'tea for three' with cherry blossom forest," she said while showing off the shower's decor.
A post shared by Kim Kardashian Snapchats ??
(@kimksnapchats) on Nov 11, 2017 at 9:35pm PST Among the celebrity guests, according to photos and videos shared on social media, were model Chrissy Teigen, her sister Khloe Kardashian, and her 4-year-old daughter, North.
Kardashian West, 37, and her husband of three years, are also parents to a 1-year-old son, Saint.
Gilbert Carrasquillo/Getty Images, FILE A post shared by Kim Kardashian Snapchats ??
(@kimksnapchats) on Nov 11, 2017 at 9:46pm PST When guests left the baby shower, they were given fragrances from the reality star's beauty brand, KKW Beauty, as party favors, Kardashian West said in one video shared on SnapChat.
A post shared by Kim Kardashian Snapchats ??
(@kimksnapchats) on Nov 11, 2017 at 10:58pm PST The reality star announced she was expecting her third child in the trailer for season 14 of her family's reality show, "Keeping Up With the Kardashians," back in September.
Free agent quarterback Colin Kaepernick has been named GQ's magazine's "Citizen of the Year" for his activism.
Kaepernick began kneeling instead of standing during the national anthem last season to protest racial inequality and police brutality.
The demonstration sparked a wave of NFL protests by players during the anthem that repeatedly have been denounced by President Donald Trump.
Kaepernick parted ways with the San Francisco 49ers in March and hasn't been signed by another team.
Kaepernick says on Twitter he's "honored" by the recognition.
The magazine 's story includes comments from several of Kaepernick's supporters and confidants.
Rapper J. Cole says Kaepernick "sacrificed his dream" to stand for something.
Ninety-year-old singer and activist Harry Belafonte says seeing people like Kaepernick taking action is "the greatest reward" he could ask for.
For more NFL coverage: http://www.pro32.ap.org and http://www.twitter.com/APNFL
Peace never reigns in the pages of DC Comics.
There's always a world to be saving, a cataclysm to avert.
The making of the DC superhero team-up film "Justice League" was hardly any more tranquil.
Made in the wake of the disappointment surrounding its predecessor, "Batman v Superman," and the critically-panned "Suicide Squad," ''Justice League" was, like a jetliner given new wings in midair, retooled on the fly.
Warner Bros. sought to lighten the tone of Zack Snyder's grandiose and muscle-bound DC universe a much-publicized pivot that came just as tragedy was striking.
Snyder, the "300" filmmaker, had overseen this latest series of DC movies starting with "Man of Steel," but he stepped down after "Justice League" had been shot following the death of his daughter.
Joss Whedon, the "Avengers" director known for snappy dialogue who had already been helping to punch up the script, was brought in steer the film through post-production and two months of reshoots.
(He's credited as co-writer.)
Writer Geoff Johns and producer Jon Berg had already been brought in to brighten "Justice League" and overhaul the wider DC slate with a more optimistic tone.
But that's not been all.
Ben Affleck, who stars as Batman, withdrew from directing a stand-alone Batman film, while also combating criticism over his behavior with women in the past.
Whedon, himself, was called a hypocrite for espousing feminist ideals by his ex-wife, Kai Cole.
Jason Momoa had to apologize for a 2011 joke about rape and "Game of Thrones."
And just weeks before release, Warner Bros. severed ties with one of the film's chief financiers, Brett Ratner's RatPac-Dune company, after sexual assault allegations were leveled against Ratner.
Gal Gadot, who plays Wonder Woman, has reportedly insisted Ratner have no connection with any future Wonder Woman film.
"Justice League" is the kind of production that, one suspects, its makers will celebrate the release of with a stiff drink.
"I've probably had a stiff drink along the way," producer Charles Roven says, chuckling.
"It's been different in the sense that we've had some sadness along the happy-joy of making the movie.
But for the most part it's been an incredibly positive experience."
Now, Warner Bros. and DC are hoping that the finished "Justice League," which opens Friday, doesn't show any Frankenstein-like scars from its tumultuous creation.
"The goal is to make sure when you're watching the movie, it all feels cohesive," says Roven, the veteran producer of "The Dark Knight" trilogy.
"That imprint that Joss had, some aspect of it is going to come out in the direction, but the actors are already pretty much down the road on their arcs.
Let's just say 80, 85 percent of the movie is what was originally shot.
There's only so much you can do with other 15, 20 percent of the movie."
In interviews, Roven and cast members pledged their loyalty to Snyder and his vision for the franchise, one they say incorporated a changing tone before Whedon's involvement.
(Neither filmmaker was made available for interview.
Each has stayed silent publicly since Snyder's departure.)
"Zack from the time that I first met with him said, 'Look, Batman makes the DC world dark.
The DC world has to be created as something dark,'" says Ezra Miller, who plays Barry Allen aka the Flash).
"He said what's great now is that the League gets to bring Batman out of this darkness.
That was always Zack's vision.
That was the intention from the beginning."
The film, Miller says, has "a wonderful collision of tone" that he considers "a testament to both the strength of Zack's vision and the generosity of Joss's commitment."
It's also a turning point in the larger DC cinematic world.
"Justice League" finds Affleck's Bruce Wayne, in the wake of Superman's apparent death, gathering together the League to fight a new enemy.
That means pushing not just Wonder Woman to the fore, but also Miller's Flash, Momoa's Aquaman and Ray Fisher's Cyborg.
"It was very clear that the tone of the movie was different than 'Batman v Superman,'" says Gadot.
"Henry (Cavill), Ben and I had a wonderful addition with Ezra and Jason and Ray (that) just stirred everything up."
Gadot and "Wonder Woman" are a big reason for optimism in the franchise, following its critically acclaimed, zeitgeist-grabbing $412.6 million box office success domestically.
Though the epicenter of DC Comcs has always revolved around Batman and Superman, that's starting to change.
Matt Reeves has taken over the Batman movie, but he's starting fresh on the screenplay, making a release date several years off.
That leaves open the possibility of further changes, even potentially Affleck's casting.
"From everything I know, he's going to play that Batman," said Roven.
"They're retooling the script, so I can't really say anything for certain."
The Superman sequel "Man of Steel 2" also isn't coming anytime soon, if at all.
Roven says there's no script but "various story ideas" are being kicked around.
On the front burner, however, is "Aquaman," scheduled for release in December 2018, a Wonder Woman sequel due in 2019 (with director Patty Jenkins returning) and a Cyborg movie.
Whedon is also prepping a Batgirl movie.
"Justice League," a team-up movie, will be followed by solo efforts.
"One of the things that's really important to us with all of these DC movies is making sure that while they make sense, one from the other because they're in a certain way linked we also want to make sure that the audience is hopefully excited by the fact that you don't know exactly where you're going to go."
Sam Golding in London contributed to this report.
Follow AP Film Writer Jake Coyle on Twitter at: http://twitter.com/jakecoyleAP
George Takei took to Twitter on Saturday to deny groping a male model and Richard Dreyfuss said he never exposed himself to a female writer helping him with a TV script, both back in the 1980s.
Takei, the 80-year-old "Star Trek" icon, said in a series of tweets that events described by Scott R. Brunton in The Hollywood Reporter "simply did not occur," and he does not remember ever knowing Brunton.
"Right now it is a he said/he said situation, over alleged events nearly 40 years ago.
But those that know me understand that non-consensual acts are so antithetical to my values and my practices, the very idea that someone would accuse me of this is quite personally painful," Takei tweeted.
Dreyfuss, meanwhile, told the New York magazine blog Vulture he flirted and even kissed Los Angeles writer Jessica Teich over several years but thought it was a "consensual seduction ritual."
The fact that "I did not get it," he said, "makes me reassess every relationship I have ever thought was playful and mutual."
Teich told Vulture she first met Dreyfuss at a theater where she worked and they spent hours together over several years after she was hired to develop a script for an ABC comedy special.
The actor, she said, made continual, overt and lewd comments and invitations but she never told anyone.
Dreyfuss, now 70, called Teich a friend of more than 30 years.
In 1987, Teich said, she was summoned to his trailer on the set of one of his films and he exposed his genitals to her.
Dreyfuss agent Barry McPherson on Saturday said his client denies ever exposing himself to Teich.
As for other encounters with Teich, Dreyfuss said he is now "horrified and bewildered to discover that it wasn't consensual."
Teich said she decided to speak out after Dreyfuss tweeted support for his son, Harry, after the younger Dreyfuss went public with accusations that Kevin Spacey groped his crotch when he was 18.
Brunton told The Hollywood Reporter he was 23 when he first met Takei at a bar.
Brunton was living in Hollywood and working as a waiter at the time.
They exchanged numbers, speaking by telephone from time to time, when he rang up Takei after breaking up with a boyfriend.
Takei invited him to dinner and the theater, Brunton said.
He said the two went to Takei's condo for drinks after.
He said he grew dizzy and "must have passed out," awaking to his pants around his ankles and Takei groping him.
He said he extricated himself and left.
The Hollywood Reporter said Friday it spoke to four longtime friends of Brunton who said he had confided in them about Takei years ago.
Also Saturday, an audio clip surfaced from Takei's appearance on Howard Stern's radio show last month.
The interview was recorded less than two weeks after sexual assault accusations against fallen film mogul Harvey Weinstein were made public.
Stern and Takei were discussing the "irony" of the Weinstein case and the audiotape of President Donald Trump boasting about grabbing women's genitals years ago, when Stern asked Takei whether he had ever grabbed a man's genitals against his will.
Takei, a staunch opponent of the Republican president, initially was silent, then said "uh oh" and laughed.
Stern asked again and Takei said, "Some people are kind of skittish, or maybe, um, uh, afraid, and you're trying to persuade."
Stern and his co-host, Robin Quivers, persisted, asking Takei whether he ever held a job over somebody for sex and he said no.
Quivers asked if he did "this grabbing at work."
Takei said, "It was either in my home.
They came to my home."
Meanwhile, "Supergirl" and "Arrow" executive producer Andrew Kreisberg has been suspended by Warners Bros. Television Group pending an investigation of sexual harassment and inappropriate touching accusations made by 19 former and current employees.
The accusations first were reported by Variety, which did not identify the 15 women and four men who accused Kreisberg.
Kreisberg told Variety, "I have made comments on women's appearances and clothes in my capacity as an executive producer, but they were not sexualized.
Like many people, I have given someone a non-sexual hug or kiss on the cheek."
Warners Bros. confirmed the suspension Saturday and said in a statement, "We take all allegations of misconduct extremely seriously."
Kreisberg's shows run on the CW network.
In another development in the barrage of sexual assault, harassment and rape allegations to rock the entertainment industry and other fields, Massachusetts prosecutors will meet with the son of a former Boston TV news anchor who said Kevin Spacey sexually assaulted the teenage boy at a Nantucket restaurant.
Cape and Islands District Attorney Michael O'Keefe told The Boston Globe on Friday the meeting "will occur soon."
Heather Unruh told reporters Wednesday that Spacey stuck his hand down her then-18-year-old-son's pants and grabbed his genitals while the two of them were at a restaurant in July 2016.
Unruh said Spacey ultimately left to use the bathroom and when he was out of sight, her son ran away.
Spacey's lawyer didn't immediately return an email seeking comment Saturday.
In New York, a subpoena in a Weinstein rape investigation requesting all medical treatment records from a therapist for "Boardwalk Empire" actress Paz de La Huerta is too broad and would be embarrassing and damaging to her, her lawyers said in court papers.
De la Huerta told police Oct. 25 the media mogul raped her twice in 2010.
The Manhattan district attorney's office has subpoenaed her therapist, who told Vanity Fair she recalled de la Huerta telling her about the sexual assaults.
But the subpoena seeks "any and all medical treatment records" from the therapist, both handwritten and typed.
De la Huerta's lawyers argued the information is protected by doctor-client confidentiality laws and she should have the opportunity to review the records before anything is turned over.
They also argued the request sought too much information beyond just the 2010 allegations.
Transcript for Comic releases documentary exploring the problems with 'Simpsons' character Apu You know Aziz and Mindy are groundbreaking figures just because it doesn't matter if they're saying groundbreaking things and I'm they exist and they have control and a certain degree of dignity.
That we didn't have.
For this is you've gotten more successful in more more people know you tour it you know.
Do you feel any responsibility.
To try.
To.
Make things better to change unity you'd say you know him and formula to make people laugh but now you have a microphone in ways that a lot of other people.
Didn't before UN may not.
Is there any sense of Blake cooking I need to try to make things.
I do think everything there is a responsibility MM making a film right now.
About up who from the Simpsons why pray at about representation it's easier to TV and you know it's part of it is certainly is an identity aspect to rip apart it to me is also like.
When you think of 9/11 and post 9/11 backlash use it's not just.
As simple as people are ignorant they see the brown people on the attack them to get to that point you have to not humanize that person.
And you can't humanize that person because you you haven't seen them be human.
Look as as people of color we've had to humanize way people we've had no choice right.
Puzzles are teachers and our neighbors we see them on television a broad range of life experiences right.
That I'm watching a movie you know that's exactly my life experience but I can understand and human level which is there something in there for me to grab absolute is why it's frustrating when you hear people say no one's gonna believe that a person of color is playing the sport know reasonably and that this kind of and an interracial marriage in this in this movie will work Romans and believe that they're not in a lake that.
To me it's like saying you don't think I can exist in this way you don't humanize me the way I've been forced to humanize you ride.
So when 9/11 haven't amounting up who denial of that are directly connected but there's something to be said about you are not a full person to me.
I don't understand you as a full person.
I don't know what to seek is I don't know.
You know what what your life could be like I can't imagine you with the family.
I don't imagine any of those things.
His ill links Dave two without Asian yes he or anything terrorist.
Or terrorists and ready unity cartoon of that that is weak yen has no.
Controls their lives ray or you're a terrorist or you are a cabdriver who doesn't have a it's something wrong with being convenience store America have been over.
But the GQ are in the servant class you're not someone who's actually expressing range what does that have drivers experience.
What is that convenience owners experience who are there families how to day and appear that's never relevant because their props.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Jenifer Lewis on Thanksgiving with Whoopi Goldberg and Liza Minelli, 'Black-ish' and more ???
he'll always be my true love ???
"Sister act" turned 25 this year.
That was -- Oh, my god.
That was me and one of the great women on the planet.
She taught me how to sing and she makes me laugh like nobody else does.
These days she's brilliant on "Black-ish" and she's getting -- -- Her personal memoire out there.
It is called "The mother of black Hollywood."
Please welcome one of the great women in the world Jenifer Lewis.
Thank you.
Hi girls.
You look great.
Thank you.
I feel good.
The book is fantastic.
Yeah.
I'm on tour having the best time.
Wow.
Thank you everybodyd out there.
Well, from that video we saw you have known whoopi for decades and decades.
You worked on four movies together.
Uh-huh.
Do you have a favorite moment?
Okay.
Let's get this -- I think that means yes.
Let's get this out of the way.
It was Thanksgiving.
Whoopi invited Jenifer Lewis and liza my Nelly to her house.
She had this gorgeous room and her art work.
Then I thought I would dude L at the piano.
I ran upstairs.
Burst into her room and she had a book in her hands.
I said girl you got Jenifer Lewis and liza in your house and you got no piano.
Are you insane?
The next morning -- Tell it.
On Thanksgiving morning a grand piano was delivered.
I love it.
Part of it was I didn't want them to feel like they had to be on.
I felt I'll have one in the wings if somebody needs it.
When she said she burst into the room, those are not the words she used.
Moving on.
I love it.
Well, I read your memoire.
It is fantastic.
Thank you.
You go deep.
You talk about dealing with bipolar disorder, sex addiction.
Some of it is very racy.
You talk about your relationships with famous people.
Absolutely.
How was it sharing those details?
This is the way it is.
There ain't no shame in my game.
Did I do it?
Yeah, I did it.
Would I do it again?
No.
Now, listen, I want you to know I was very ill in my 20s.
I had bipolar disorder and didn't know it.
My drug of choice was sex.
There you have it.
I have went and got help.
I'm better.
A lot of therapy.
A lot of guys are using it -- a lot of guys are using right now sex addiction saying it's an addiction.
Girl, look, it's one thing to have a sex addiction.
It's another thing to be evil.
People are sick.
I just want to applaud everyone that's coming forward now.
Listen y'all this is the way I go.
We are as sick as our secret.
There you go.
I spent my life holding so much in.
It's all in the book.
Now, baby, I tell it all.
Lay it on the flash.
She's like her own dramatic reading.
I'm telling you.
Now you know I mentioned "Black-ish."
We have a sneak peek this week.
Wow.
That was like poetry.
It deal lves into your characters past.
Come on grandma.
I can handle the truth.
Many years ago I blew up Earle's boat bad.
I was charged with some aquatic crime got thrown into a maritime jail and shared a cell with a sick co who got off on ter rising dolphins.
Can you imagine the angels of the sea?
That was amazing.
Something else that's amazing you have been rapping on Instagram to promote your book.
You may have heard we're having a birthday party here.
Could you rap something for whoopi.
I'll do my best.
The view asked me to rap for my whoop.
Red lips for my book.
Singing for whoop.
I hit it high for my whoop.
Now you work for my whoop.
Rapapapum for my whoop.
You know I had to come for my whoop.
I did "Sister act" for my whoop and look black don't crack for my whoop.
Now that's enough about whoop.
That's enough about whoop.
That's enough about my good whoop.
Go buy my book.
Our thanks to the fabulous Jenifer Lewis.
"Black-ish" airs Tuesday nights on ABC.
Her memoir "The mother of black Hollywood" is out tomorrow.
Damn it y'all are going home with it.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Tiffany Haddish makes history as 1st black female comic to host 'SNL' choice next time you're asked if you want fries with your burger, just order a second burger.
Call it the two burgers no fries option.
A nutritionist recommending it saying a second burger is actually a better option.
It helps you fill up, it offers more protein than French fries and says the balance of fat and carbs is better than the fries which are as we all know empty but delicious calories.
Yeah.
Don't you get the French fries?
I mean I think -- I knew you would agree.
I always get double burger, no bun.
Proof positive.
Double up the protein and say good-bye to fries.
Country music rising to the occasion banding together to raise money for those this need.
The country rising concert at Nashville's bridgestone arena serving as a fund-raiser for victims of hurricanes Harvey, Irma and MARIA as well as for the Las Vegas concert shooting and, boy, it was all hands on deck.
Keith urban, Reba, Dierks Bentley, Jason aldean wowing the sold out crowd.
There were so many others there.
Hillary from lady antebellum telling us how it all came together.
We just want to honestly unite together with our other friends and country music to remind not only ourselves but everyone these are causes that still need our attention, the relief is still needed.
Absolutely as robin has shown us all morning long and Michael.
One beautiful smile and voice that was missing Carrie Underwood, she was supposed to be there but fell, broke her wrist on Friday at home.
She got lots of scrapes and bruises but told her fans that her hubby was taking very good care of her.
She hated to miss it.
I know, he's retired now so he can help her out.
Take care of the Mrs. Lots of money raised for a very good cause.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Louis CK accuser speaks out on comedy's 'open secret' For so we begin with the growing need to movement hundreds.
Marching down Hollywood boulevard on Sunday send a message days after five women came forward with sexual misconduct allegations against comedian Louie CK.
ABC's Lee Davis spoke exclusively with one accuser Rebecca quarry about the allegations that many say.
We've heard this before Lindsay weren't open secret tape you're exactly right and good morning T Amy at Cory says that incidents of sexual misconduct with Louis CK work common knowledge of people joked about it and made light of it.
Then it happened to her and she says it made her angry.
A release CK accuser is speaking out this morning about what she calls the opening secret about the comedian.
It was just actually sort of common knowledge.
In the comedy world kill me jokes about it all the time then she says it happened to her.
Actress and comedian Rebecca quarries seat here in two year old girl's family.
That's in 2005.
Luis CK approached her when she was working on a TV pilot I was walking to set.
To shoot my scene.
And he approached me and got really close my face and say can I ask you something and I CBS.
And he said can night.
Masturbating in front of you in your dressing her she says when the show's executive producers Courteney Cox and David Arquette found out they were disturbed and supported.
Even discuss curtailing production but Corey says that's not what she wanted a wanna just sort of pretend like it never happened I mean.
I wanted to do my job those opportunities are few and far between they most certainly didn't want to be the person who was responsible for shutting down a production or even being part of the narrative.
She says her one regret if I can do any thing.
Differently it would be that day.
I would've shut down production I would've confronted it and I would have dealt with that then because I have learned that.
Doing nothing saying nothing.
Does not help.
Apple Couri is just one of several women who came forward in a bombshell report by the New York Times Saint Louis either tried or did exposing touch himself in front of them.
Now.
We're still up.
Afraid of women.
Many of the standup comedy scene said the rumors of his behavior were an open secret for the past decade.
Some even making jokes about it on stage the popular comedian who has since been dropped by FXH feeling Netflix.
Was quick to issue and an apology saying in a statement.
At the time I said to myself that what I did was okay.
But what I learned later in life too late is that the power I had over these women is that they admired me and I wielded that power he responsibly.
Cory says two years ago Louis CK called her directly to apologize.
As for how this so called open secret was allowed to persist for so long.
You're that powerful in your generating back kind of money.
And you can you can literally night someone's life by giving them a show.
You know.
That's what's gonna happen.
And also with regard to how it stayed an open secret for so long quarry went on to say that the comedy world is a very different world and she says that's there's a lot of allegiance and a lot of fear and it's not a comfortable place to speak out.
But that's what she would like to see change she says if she hopes of the paper we'll stop and people will stop quote.
Laughing and joking and high five I think that's so interesting because I heard Rebecca say that she didn't want to be the person responsible for shutting down a production instead of knowing that it was his actions and their would have shut down a production and now she says that her message would be to say something well she certainly has now indeed she seemed much more about when he called a couple of years ago what she said to him when his manner was like yeah she said of the time that he said oh I'm sorry that I forced into a closet and she's a rule that's not even what happens eventually sinking.
He must do this what a lot of different people because this isn't even the incident that that happened how then she said she really wanted to just get over it and smooth things over.
Now well she's certainly speaking up now and a lot of women in what manner lessening thank you Lansing.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Tiffany Haddish makes history on 'Saturday Night Live' Now does Tiffany had a huge and she made history this weekend hosting Saturday Night Live as a first.
Black female stand up comic to do so Ashton getting great reviews for her work including this sketch where she's in a gaming character with some interesting food.
Who Joseph Torre's Porter over here and yeah.
Her.
Secondary until.
Additionally teamed up as well we Kate McCann infer I hair raising new whiskers are we skipped.
This cats you know when a player on me now.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Aly Raisman alleges abuse by USA doctor Also this morning George there are new and troubling accusations of sexual abuse in the world of US women's gymnastics alleyways and of the captain and the 2012.
And 2016 Olympic gold medal winning teams now joining that growing list of women accusing teen doctor.
Larry Nasser of inappropriate behavior and ABC's Adrian bankers here with more on this story.
Adrienne good morning guess another troubling testimonial here Amy Amy Alley race meant saying that she is paying Greek.
And still processing what started happening to her as a teenager with hopes her story we'll help other young athletes.
This morning six time Olympic medalist Alley race meant just for the first time on camera in an interview with sixty minutes that when she was fifteen.
Former US women's gymnastics team doctor leery Nasser started sexually abusing her.
I was in denial I was like I don't think I do I don't even know it's a big.
I am a victim of a sexual abuse they get to really not an easy thing to like yourself believe that.
And a year before race men would make history as part of the final five at the 2016.
Rio games.
She says it was the questions asked by an investigator hired by USA gymnastics to look into NASA's behavior.
That led to the realization of what was happening to her.
NA said he Ella he has touching me hand contrail but he's so nice to me an eight I don't feed as an on purpose because.
You know I think he cares about me I think it's important will be able to no till I'm still trying to put the pieces together today in LA impact Steve for the rest of real life.
Grayson is 2012 Olympics teammate Michaela Maroney also recently came forward saying she was abused by Nasser.
Adding to the growing list of more than 125.
Women who now say they.
Are also victims.
It's I care a lot you know NI CE he's young girls that come out to me and they asked for pictures or autographs whenever and I just.
I can't every time I look at them every time I see them smiling I just think.
I just finding three changed so that they never ever have to go do that's.
Larry NASA remains in prison after pleading guilty to charges of child pornography.
And not guilty to charges of sexual assault his attorney tells Good Morning America he's aware Friedman's allegations that can't comment.
Due to a gag order now in a statement to ABC news.
USA gymnastics tells us we are appalled by the conduct of which leery Nasr is accused we are committed to doing what's right.
And he went to work with Alley and all interested athletes to keep athletes safe to drink so brave of her to come forward thank you so much Adrian.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Carrie Underwood breaks her wrist in a fall outside her Nashville home ???
I love that music.
I do, too.
Don't you love it?
It never gets old.
Never gets old.
As we like to Sarks it all builds up to this.
Time for "Pop news."
What's poppin'?
Sara very familiar with "Pop news."
A "Pop news" potpourri.
First, Simon Cowell.
And now care re Underwood.
She took a bad fall in front of her home.
She broke her wrist.
Carrie's hubtd, NHL star, Mike fisher returned home overnight to care for her.
Her appearance at the country rising benefit tonight has been canceled.
We hope she fools much, much better.
Popping the question, gentlemen, we're going them to you out.
If the big moment if your life needs to be recorded.
Some breentrepreneurs have come up with a way to do this.
The hock holder is so you can pop the question with your home.
Ensure that it's captured from the proper angle.
If you're confident on a ringing endorsement, be sure to buy -- Oh, I like that.
You can spend less on the -- Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Wait a minute.
Does everything need to be recorded?
No.
Sni just want someone to put their phone down.
The best things are not recorded, actually.
They sure aren't, Adrienne.
What?
I can assure you she won't be back again.
Just sealing the deal, people.
Just sealing the deal.
Easy.
Okay.
Let's change the subject to the holidays.
You probably noticed.
Are you dreaming of a white Christmas?
Who doesn't.
???
Christmas tree and the Christmas party hop ???
Are you rocking around the Christmas tree.
Feliz navidad.
Some radio stations have started to play Christmas music already.
They're saying listening to holly music too early could trigger the stress by reminding you of your to do list.
We have the solution.
Put your ear buds in and listen to your iPhone.
You have your own sound track.
Listen to the new Taylor Swift album and forget -- ???
decking the halls with B rks ughs of holly ???
I can live with that.
The universal food.
If you're won'tering what today is it's national pizza with everything day except for anchovies.
That is actually a holiday?
They eat and they tune out.
They're hungry.
But, yeah, some people don't like anchovies.
They're a bit polarizing.
It is New York City.
Home of the best pizza in the world.
Which one did you get?
Is that eggplant parmesan pizza?
It's got a lot of stuff.
It's got everything but anchovies.
Broccoli.
Who made the pizza?
Big Nick's.
We appreciate it.
We're going the eat.
So, I like cold pizza.
This is -- in luck.
They did that just for me.
Thank you.
Tomorrow is national cold pizza day.
Adrienne, thank you very much.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Pioneers of cinema receive honorary Oscars at the 2017 Governors Awards We're back with more "Gma."
Oscar season kicked off overnight with the governor's awards.
And "Gma" was right there on the red carpet where the stars were not only talking about fashion and film but also the recent headlines about sexual assault and harassment.
Chris Connelly has more.
Reporter: At Saturday night's 2017 governor's awards.
Pioneers of cinema receiving honorary oscars for long-time excellence.
And there to pay their respects, many are movies eligible for upcoming awards, too.
On the red carpet, forthright talk about the recent sexual harassment allegations.
Dominated the conversation.
I commend the brave men and women who have come out with their stories.
I really hope that this is a huge paradigm shift and it can be a course toward systemic change.
I hope the sexual harassment conversation extens out to other industries.
It's long past overdue that people understand that you can't behave that way.
I think it's a great catalyst for change.
Reporter: Change represented well by the evening's honorees.
Charles Burnett, whose drama, killer of sheep, brought realism.
French connection dp.
Birdman director, a special award for virtual reality musm piece on immigration.
Donald Sutherland, his more than 50-year career spanning the dirty dozen and the hunger games.
These things happen inn war.
Reporter: And 89-year-old director and document Taryn, Anya swarte.
I love Los Angeles.
Reporter: No one was having more fun than Brooklyn prince.
I mean, I love "Good morning America."
It's like the best show ever.
Reporter: Being much talk about for her for nominal performance in the Florida project.
Oh, come on.
Reporter: Will you go to sleep at midnight like Cinderella?
No curfew!
I'm going to stay up late.
Yes.
Good morning, America.
Reporter: For "Good morning America," Chris Connelly, ABC news, Los Angeles.
I want one.
Can I have one.
No curfew.
Whoo.
Not how we feel before you anchor "Gma."
A little girl.
That movie is getting incredibly good reviews.
You were saying that.
It's supposed to be really, really good.
Much more coming up on This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Decoding the lyrics in Taylor Swift's new album 'Reputation' Time for "Pop news."
I used to say time for "Pop news."
Here's Sara Haines but now -- I feel the need to scoot over there.
Here we come.
Here we come.
Help me, guys.
A Dan sandwich.
Hr on the horn.
What's going on?
Oh, all the love.
Fans are going wild over Taylor Swift's new album "Reputation."
The superstar debuting her song "New year's day" during Thursday night's episode of "Scandal."
All the swifties may be easy to please but music reviewers are giving it rave reviews.
A lot of speculation about some of the lyrics, some saying in "Getaway car" she could be referencing her romance with Tom hiddleston and seems to be reference to her new boyfriend in "King of my heart."
When she describes how her new bff is the one she's been waiting for.
The reviews have been positive.
"The New York Times," I've seen rave reviews.
My favorite is "End game" with Ed sheeran and future.
She doesn't know how to do anything but nail it.
She's a business, man.
Good role model.
I like her.
Here's some more role models, role modeling honors to our veterans showing support for the military during the league's salute to service which includes today, veterans day, earlier members of the buccaneers visited Mcde la Huerta air force base in Tampa for a meet and greet session and a firsthand look at daily life and, of course, those deployed sharing their stories.
Members of the Minnesota vikings visited a V.A.
Hospital autographing footballs and hats and listening to temmials.
The rams will host awellness expo and Atlanta falcons will be meeting families as well, the NFL completely supporting this leaguewide.
Also, our vets aren't being for gotten.
Dunkin' donuts offers doughnuts to active military and veterans and Sara is eating a doughnut in honor of our veterans today.
I'm doing this for them.
She's eating a doughnut for two.
This cute little one right here.
Krispy kreme has a similar promotion.
Applebee's offers free meals to those who served in the military and free secretary entrees at cpk, California pizza kitchen.
Thank you.
They deserve this all the time.
Thank you to our businesses who support veterans.
A lot of folks doing that and I'm going to have a doughnut.
When I was 14 my mom made me get a job and it was at Duncan and the smell -- It's a thing.
Before we go we want to say thank you ourselves to all the veterans who work here at ABC news and including also our relatives who have served and Sara Haines' parents.
Yep.
Both veterans.
Both.
We thank you for all your service and sacrifices.
Have a great day.
We'll see you back here tomorrow.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Louis C.K.
admits the allegations against him are true We have news this morning about the comedian Louis C.K.
Who has come out to say that the accusations against him are actually true.
ABC's Eva pilgrim is here covering the fallout from this admission, Eva, good morning.
Reporter: Good morning.
For many these allegations against comedian Louis C.K.
Came as a shock.
He joked about how men mistreated women and even been referred to as a male feminist but now his own behavior in question and this morning, that stunning admission.
There is no greater threat to women than men.
We're the number one threat.
Reporter: Popular comedian Louis C.K.
At the center of the latest sexual misconduct allegations now confirming them in a statement saying, I want to address the stories told to "The New York Times" by five women.
These stories are true.
I donam the guy that women see and go, eh.
Reporter: The bombshell report details stories stretching back more than a decade all saying Louis exposed and touched himself in front of them.
Chicago comedy duo Dana min Goodman and Julia wolov said they met him at a festival in 2002.
At first they thought he was joking but then he proceeded to take all of his clothes off and get completely naked.
The comedian admitting at the time I said to myself that I did was okay, but what I learned later in life, too late, is that the power I had over these women is that they admired me and I wielded that power irresponsibly.
Well, Louis C.K.
Is probably one of the most popular well liked comedians, you know, this person's powerful and could hurt your career.
Reporter: Louis built a career making crowds laugh about male hypocrisy, making fun of his appearance and sexual hangups.
Really sick sexual thoughts.
No, you have no idea.
Reporter: Now feeling the fallout from these women coming forward, FX cutting all ties, HBO and Netflix also dropping him from upcoming projects, the release of his new film "I love you daddy" abruptly canceled by the production company.
And Louis C.K.
Saying he is remorseful.
He's tried to learn from what he did.
But also admits he tried to run from it.
Now saying he realizes just how many people he hurt with his actions, not just the women but all of the people around him if and his family.
Eva, thank you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for 'The Long Road Home' .
Finally America strong.
Tonight we thank our veterans and their families who all know too well about the long road home.
Reporter: The long road home tells the story of April 4th, 2004.
Keep your eyes open boys.
Reporter: The first cavalry division from ft.
Hood.
Guys see what I'm seeing?
Where the hell is everyone?
Reporter: 18 U.S.
Soldiers on a peace-keeping mission.
Suddenly ambushed.
Ambush!
Reporter: The battalion racing in to rescue them.
The new nat geo series, her reporting on the ground.
Eight Americans died that day.
Covering policy or where were the wmds that we forgotten there was a war going on.
No one had asked me those questions and I think for them and for their spouses just talking about that was healthy and helpful.
Reporter: She wrote about our warriors and their families, what they were going through back home.
Just kids.
Reporter: 13 years later those 48 hours recreated on a set in Texas.
Looks spot on doesn't it?
Reporter: Eric, a 23-year-old army sergeant remembering when he sought shelter in a house.
I've got vivid memories coming in through the door.
Reporter: The American hero he was portraying and listen to what milltonburger says.
The guilt is I didn't get shot and they did.
That's it.
Reporter: Martha has met so many families waiting with a hug.
This widow.
It's so hard.
Reporter: With families onset and the actors looking to on nor them Martha with the names.
I would like to read the names of the fallen.
We will observe a moment of silence at the beginning of the whistle and a whistle will mark the end, thank you all.
Reporter: An effort to remember our veterans and their families who sack identified, too.
And you can watch the long road home Tuesday nights on the national geographic channel.
I'm David Muir.
We From Boston's new leader, this is the news at 7:00 P.M.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for 'Real Live': Can you name the lyric?
Moving.
We are from movies to music.
The a new class of song writers were just announced as nominees for the songwriters hall of fame.
We have a fun little game we're gonna play using photos of all things that and yeah.
But I'm going to go ahead and reits and lyrics.
In my most.
Hurt us all that Ernest away.
You guys are gonna have your phones tend to have real live on it you know the figure that the logo for the show have had a hand.
If you want keep you know the song or the artists immediately.
Raise it up facts and then on the net to make a judgment call on who is first cocaine which is really going to be challenging again I'm.
Lewis yeah.
Yeah.
Did you get killed brutally kind of snack alone.
You are currently and I didn't really get plenty wants US.
The quake I'm of the Vietnam as soon as possible ala Alastair back and feel we can do here I got.
Man what what what song is that.
Interpreting the deal with new lieutenant there will be yeah you know ordinary.
Benefits of the with the district it.
I'm that the Brooklyn.
Nauman TriBeCa that.
You delete an art date eight yes with the bonus question with the song.
And and pets at mood day.
It's learning that.
And so I bet that one if it.
Welcome to play the song afterwards.
I'm saying here.
And I.
His camps open.
Put out those who know.
I put AG netted Atlanta it's in the debt I think that's not just like javy by the way in the Sinai and kind of let it be an excellent look classic artists.
Please allow mediators myself.
It's easy.
New.
Boo boo hoo hoo but the police never back to back.
Hey Hart yeah.
I'm a man of wealth and taste.
I've been around for a long long year stole many a man's soul and Faye.
I love that that's a great there exists great lie behind it sun it can't get designed I'll keep going I know it actually thought about down here I will go up memory.
Pleased to meet you hope he gets my name and because why puzzling you.
I'm gonna hurt.
Pay the rolling down.
Mic to Yasser reject directly asked.
Who Emma and you wanna feel bad for our.
At an and it and activity for the double.
The middle Eric of this.
I'm.
Don't you.
Money it was my summer.
Oh yeah.
That's what I kid ever gonna tear Jerker up next stint on a soulful kind of guy.
No no no.
The takers.
That you're raising up at least I'll.
Already missed that he's intake and and get limited funds not that please don't know that that's a good gust up and no no no.
Don't it always seemed to go.
That you don't know what you got.
Fillets gardens I like singing follow.
That was a somewhat apartments you.
Well oh now this is also remade years later this is that the original but is in that got big Ellis act think yes.
Good the original singer.
There's the ripples.
Out loud and a.
That.
It's exactly did this yeah.
I was kind of things and act now and Counting Crows scanning had a hand that's I'm Diana got I got.
We're gonna do look at a lady wrote to questions in the last few lines for you if you get this is and there are things.
KC a little silhouettes of a man.
The next line he was fired from the White House.
And fired back that scare mood scare into its cat and you do defending I can sing and my mind and you're terrific karaoke.
I'm out of your root your voice sounds like Angel and I had influence on this.
Can you read billion.
I think in the net mama.
I just killed a man.
A bubble Roth who couldn't cook but he added it is it clean Bahamian yeah.
I don't want and I read that that doesn't yeah.
Play.
Should you do and they'll know that Canada and I don't do everything yeah.
Yeah I got the title.
Sitting in don't worry about a thing.
'cause every little thing.
Going to be all right Bob highlight gas Dilbert thing.
We'll let.
Everything.
Padilla.
And that's a great idea I hate the fit on that question but that was a lot of fun if that.
Is that I'm not this say.
None mining town and not hearing that yeah it's so let's check in it's really Clinton played there.
Really funny thing like that the Pentagon most of that commitment.
So that the 2008.
And the nominees.
We have amongst them the we have we had with John Cougar Mellencamp Bruce and not Mellencamp black hair in there.
Does anybody that you believe I mean obviously we don't have this memorize as far as inducted as an everything was snubbed that that's do you meet today we had a lot Anemia is that we had.
They're Taylor Swift drop an album we had and then jump with song is there anybody that you're expecting in the future -- they afford to kind of for there earlier accident for there them to be one day inducted in a down.
Bill yeah.
Yeah I just it to see panacea I think she's creative very interesting landscape I think this growth stargate I think they creatively and using landscape.
I'm also mantra boom in as creative very interesting landscape topped charts across the billboards.
As well as Mike will made it Mike will main Islamist allied armed guards beats us on that we've heard such as formation by beyonc.
Some curious to see the types of songs and song writers that would see going for in the future.
Welcome to the dynamic of music Redding has changed in the long lot of days one writer writing bright ones on now it's it's a collaborative process.
Some songs you have up to seven writers some even tendon in his right as I'm curious is seen as we move forward with this new stop ranting and collaboration because.
Art is now want a piece that publishing.
Right because art is not a not making money off albums for SA friends they want to make sure they have more revenue sources and streams are to get that.
Recognizing what artists themselves involved in the writing apps out there to see much more collaborators with its about the changes in this see how does this songwriters hall of fame.
The and then to select and choose and as a criteria it's.
Ani union an interesting point about you know some writers hit you right there won't hold that card and yeah you know Max mine that I was that it activity.
And you know he was.
Have righter for it in sync Backstreet Boys Britney Spears and he's also elevated and some mines and nations he's got people lake.
Taylor Swift Katy Perry blocked weren't there and be a good and I hadn't at night and but now we got here point it's really cool to see.
That there are a lot of song writers being recognized act that they can right across multiple.
You know another.
You have admitted Hagan didn't Jesse do with that at that time writer before she hit it Whitner.
Song which goes don't need the money money money that went your money money money data nestled along and again.
And yeah and I.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
In 1990, fans of "The Simpsons" first met Indian character Apu Nahasapeemapetilon, a friendly convenience store owner with a thick accent provided by actor Hank Azaria.
Hari Kondabolu, a comedian and filmmaker, has long taken issue with the character, whom he claims is one-dimensional, belittling and racist.
In fact, Apu was so problematic for Kondabolu that he documented his concerns in the upcoming film, "The Problem With Apu," which is set to premiere on TruTV on Nov. 19.
"There's an identity aspect to it but part of it to me is also, when you think of 9/11 and post-9/11 backlash, it's not just as simple as people are ignorant, they see brown people and they attack them.
To get to that point, you have to not humanize that person and you can't humanize that person because you haven't seen them as human," Kondabolu told ABC News' Amna Nawaz for her "Uncomfortable" podcast.
"You're either a cartoon that is weak -- that has no control of their lives -- or you're a terrorist or you're a cab driver... in the servant class.
You're not someone that's actually expressing range.
What's that cab driver's experience?
What is that convenience store owner's experience?
... That's never relevant because they're props."
FilmMagic/Getty Images For the film, Kondabolu, 35, spoke to celebrities including Kal Penn, Utkarsh Ambudkar and Aasif Mandvi, all of whom shared his feelings about Apu.
Kondabolu also pointed out the negative impact that Apu has had on the lives and careers of South Asian performers.
In the movie's trailer, actors Maulik Pancholy and Sakina Jaffrey of "Star Trek: Discovery" and "House of Cards," respectively, mentioned auditions in which actors were expected to mimic Azaria's exaggerated, stereotypical accent.
Conversely, however, Kondabolu told ABC News that he does find hope in Mindy Kaling and Aziz Ansari who have helmed their own TV shows.
"Aziz and Mindy are groundbreaking figures," he said.
"It doesn't matter if theyr'e saying groundbreaking thngs or not.
They exist and they have control and a certain degree of dignity that we didn't have before."
While her character Rey became an instant favorite with "Star Wars" fans around the globe, young and old, Daisy Ridley gave her 2015 "Force Awakens" performance a big thumbs-down.
Interested in Star Wars?
Add Star Wars as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Star Wars news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest "I didn't think I was good in the first film, and I was struggling with that," she told Elle U.K. in an interview released Monday afternoon.
She didn't expand on why she hated her performance, but perhaps it was director J.J. Abrams' calling her performance "wooden" on the first day of shooting that shook her confidence.
"I honestly wanted to die," she recalled to Glamour in 2015.
"I thought I was gonna cry, I couldnt breathe."
However, for "The Last Jedi," Ridley's second go in the galaxy far, far away, she seems to be feeling more at ease.
It took some time given the powerful fan base and hype behind "Star Wars."
"I was thinking I did the first one because I didn't really know what I was getting myself into and I was having loads of fun, and suddenly I'm realizing what this actually is, and I can't f------ do this," she explained to Elle.
"Finally, I was like 'Oh yeah, this is working.'"
But she teases that this film will be different, especially in terms of her onscreen companions.
"It's not this big adventure that I'm on with John [Boyega]," she said of the actor who plays Finn.
Instead, Rey will have more screen time with Mark Hamill's legendary Jedi, Luke Skywalker, as seen in previous trailers.
Star Wars/YouTube Star Wars/YouTube But will the duo be able to co-exist and learn from each other?
That remains to be seen.
But lucky for fans, they only have one month to go.
"Star Wars: The Last Jedi" opens December 15 from Lucasfilm, which is owned by Disney, the parent company of ABC News.
Image copyright BBC/Getty Images/PA Image caption Holmes topped the poll ahead of (clockwise from top left) Vaughan, Morgan, Turnbull and Walker If the results of a new poll are to be believed, the UK's TV watchers prefer waking up with a man than with a woman.
In a Radio Times list of the 20 best UK breakfast television presenters "of all time", the top five have one thing in common - they're all blokes.
TV veteran Eamonn Holmes comes out on top, ahead of Johnny Vaughan, Piers Morgan, Dan Walker and Bill Turnbull.
Good Morning Britain's Susanna Reid is the highest ranked female presenter, coming in at number six.
Holmes, the highest ranked male, received more than seven times more votes than Reid.
Image copyright PA Image caption Susanna Reid received 1,551 of the more than 33,000 votes cast And Reid, who has been a breakfast television presenter since 2004, received 582 fewer votes than Morgan, her contentious co-host on the ITV flagship show.
Chris Evans, the BBC's highest-paid broadcaster, is ranked ninth for his work on Channel 4's The Big Breakfast in the early 1990s.
Despite no female presenters appearing in the top five slots, they fare better numerically in the poll overall occupying 12 of the 20 places on offer.
The 19th of these is taken by the BBC's Jill Dando, who was fatally shot on her doorstep in 1999.
Top 20 presenters with number of votes cast 1) Eamonn Holmes (11,734) 11) Naga Munchetty (375) 2) Johnny Vaughan (7,397) 12) Sian Williams (341) 3) Piers Morgan (2,133) 13) Ben Shephard (317) 4) Dan Walker (2,095) 14) Penny Smith (290) 5) Bill Turnbull (1,773) 15) Charlie Stayt (222) 6) Susanna Reid (1,551) 16) Kate Garraway (190) 7) Louise Minchin (910) 17) Sarah Jane-Mee (165) 8) Steph McGovern (602) 18) Anne Diamond (159) 9) Chris Evans (515) 19) Jill Dando (129) 10) Lorraine Kelly (509) 20) Sophie Raworth (128) Source: Radio Times More than 33,000 votes were cast in the online poll, which saw 10 current or former BBC Breakfast presenters recognised.
Tim Glanfield, editor of RadioTimes.com, welcomed Holmes's triumph, calling him "a breakfast television institution and a master of live television".
Holmes said in a statement: "Well, I'm the longest serving breakfast TV presenter of all time so I'd like to think that in some way you're not only just the longest or hanging in there but it also equates to being quite good at it."
The 57-year-old thanked those who voted "for remembering that I was there in good days and bad days, when the weather was good, when the weather was bad, when the news was good, when the news was bad."
Holmes also had good things to say about Morgan, telling the Radio Times: "You love him or loathe him, but you can't ignore him.
"Breakfast TV is dying because people's tastes and habits are changing.
But Piers has said we're going to go out kicking and screaming on this one and I think that's interesting."
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Newcastle University was the only UK institution to give Martin Luther King an honorary degree In barbers and bakeries, train stations and tea factories, the words of civil rights campaigner Martin Luther King were given fresh breath by the people of Newcastle on Monday - helped by artist Jeremy Deller.
In George Scott gentlemen's hairdressers, a customer sits and listens - he hasn't got much choice, with his short back and sides in progress - to a speech about how "racism is a reality in many sections of our world today".
The person delivering the speech is his barber, Allan Andrew Symons.
He ends by informing his bemused client that they are "words spoken by Dr Martin Luther King Jr in Newcastle-upon-Tyne, 13th November 1967".
Image caption Barber Allan Andrew Symons (front) was among the people reciting parts of the speech In the tiny Pink Lane Bakery, Sara Williams has worked out that she can deliver Dr King's words in the time it takes to make a coffee.
"Some people have ignored me completely," she says.
"Some people have looked at me a bit strangely.
Others have listened and been more engaged."
In the city library, IT project manager and actress Amanda Hepburn stands in the foyer and tells of how all the nations of the world must transform into "a beautiful symphony of brotherhood".
Image caption Amanda Hepburn read her lines in the library "I saw one of the library staff clutching her hand to her chest like she was a bit emotional about it, which was very nice," she says after delivering her lines.
"Everybody else seems a bit worried.
There was a lady with a pram who hustled away, frightened that I was some loony in the library.
"But I think when they understand what it's all about, and what it means to Newcastle, they'll understand what a special event this is."
It's exactly 50 years since Dr King delivered his speech at Newcastle University.
He was accepting an honorary degree, and Newcastle was the only UK university to bestow such an honour upon him in his lifetime.
It was also the last speech he gave outside the US.
Five months later, he was dead.
Now, 50 people have spontaneously recited lines from that acceptance speech - taking people by surprise in shops, schools, offices, on the street, a yoga class, a business conference.
Image caption Jeremy Deller is renowned for performances involving members of the public "I feel very humble that I'm speaking the words of such a great man, who made such a great effect on the world," Mrs Hepburn adds.
"I'm so proud that Newcastle reached out to him, and that Newcastle opened its heart to the civil rights movement is very special.
It makes me so proud to be from Newcastle."
The idea for the city-wide anniversary performance came from Jeremy Deller, one of Britain's leading artists, who knows how to make a big impact by interjecting his ideas into our everyday lives.
He was behind the powerful We're Here Because We're Here project last year, which placed "ghost soldiers" into towns across the UK to mark the centenary of the Battle of the Somme.
Dr King's speech was "political poetry", Deller says, adding: "I thought it was an amazing speech and still is.
It's incredibly poignant for today."
In the speech, Dr King set out three major problems that faced the US and the rest of the world in 1967 - "the problem of racism, the problem of poverty and the problem of war".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Martin Luther King: Newcastle University unveils statue Deller came up with the idea for his project four years ago.
"Strangely, the words are actually more relevant and more poignant now than they were four years ago, when you think about what's been going on in America and Europe as well, and in this country," he says.
Also on Monday, a statue of Dr King was unveiled in Newcastle, and there has been a season of commemorative events under the banner Freedom City.
Image copyright Wunderbar Image caption Fifteen-year-old Yuri recorded passages for the Metro network Ilana Mitchell, artistic director of Newcastle-based arts organisation Wunderbar, which organised Deller's performance, says the out-of-the-blue recitals were met with shock by some - but that they had made the desired impact.
"We've had some interesting feedback of people being really startled by it and then really moved as well," she says.
"We had a woman this morning who's the clinical lead at the paediatric unit at one of the hospitals and she recited one of the parts of the speech to the team at the ward round handover, and said it was very moving, although nerve-wracking.
"It's been lovely because every time we've spoken to somebody about this project, once they've got over the nervousness of speaking out in public, they've told us why it's so important - because the words are so resonant today."
Image caption Sara Williams recited her lines in Pink Lane Bakery Back at the barber's, 29-year-old computer programmer Alex Lees is next in the chair.
He has already heard the lines once - on the public address system on the Metro on his way to work.
"I left my headphones at work so I heard every word of it and was listening properly to it," he says.
"It was a complete shock.
I think it's always nice to spread that message.
Usually all you hear is 'this service is running well' or 'this service has a problem', so to hear that was completely different from what you usually get.
"And I wouldn't have known about the anniversary without it."
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Reuters/Conde Nast Image caption Jones will take over from the long-serving Carter next month Radhika Jones has been named as Vanity Fair's next editor-in-chief.
Jones - currently editorial director of the New York Times book department - will take over from Graydon Carter on 11 December.
She is the first female editor at the magazine since Tina Brown, who was in charge of the Conde Nast title from 1984 to 1992.
Carter, 68, announced in September he was stepping down from his post after 25 years at the helm.
Jones previously managed Time magazine's arts and entertainment coverage.
Before that she was managing editor of The Paris Review.
The New York resident said she was "honoured to succeed Graydon Carter as editor and excited to get to work."
Dame Anna Wintour, artistic director of Conde Nast and editor-in-chief of Vogue, called Jones "fearless and brilliant".
Jones also got the thumbs up from Tina Brown, who described her on Twitter as a "smart, literary, stylish, new broom".
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
The photographer who airbrushed part of Lupita Nyong'o's hair from a Grazia magazine cover has apologised.
An Le said he recognised smoothing down, and editing out, parts of her hair was a "damaging and hurtful act".
The actress said she was "disappointed" the magazine changed her hairstyle to "fit their notion of what beautiful hair looks like".
She posted the image on Instagram next to the published version - which shows some of her hair missing.
It was from the UK-based magazine's November edition.
"I've had some time to reflect on my part in the incident involving Grazia and Ms. Nyong'o," said An Le "I realize now what an incredibly monumental mistake I have made and I would like to take this time to apologize to Ms. Nyong'o and everyone else that I did offend.
"Though it was not my intention to hurt anyone, I can see now that altering the image of her hair did.
"There is no excuse for my actions.
I deeply regret the pain I've caused Ms. Nyong'o, a woman I've admired for quite some time now."
In a lengthy Instagram post, the Oscar-winning actress said: "I embrace my natural heritage and despite having grown up thinking light skin and straight, silky hair were the standards of beauty, I now know that my dark skin and kinky, coily hair are beautiful too."
In a statement issued on Friday, Grazia said it was "committed to representing diversity" and apologised to the actress.
It also said it also wanted to make clear that it did not ask the photographer to alter the image or make the edit.
Lupita is the latest star to tell a UK magazine not to touch her hair.
Solange Knowles hit out at the London Evening Standard magazine last month for digitally removing some of her braids on its front cover.
The magazine later said sorry.
Find us on Instagram at BBCNewsbeat and follow us on Snapchat, search for bbc_newsbeat
Actress Scarlett Archer - Nell Fairfax on ITV's Emmerdale - has claimed to be the victim of sexual harassment on the London Underground.
"To the guy who just sexually harassed me on the tube - I hate you.
I hate you SO much," she tweeted on Saturday.
The actress said her alleged harasser had left her in tears.
Archer's comments prompted a flurry of sympathetic reactions and a tweet from the British Transport Police saying it took such incidents "very seriously".
In a follow-up tweet, Archer - who appeared on Emmerdale between March and September this year - said it was "just heartbreaking" to be targeted.
She continued: "I know this isn't a gender thing and plenty of men have to go through this too."
The issue of sexual harassment in the entertainment industry and beyond has been a major talking point after allegations made against Harvey Weinstein, Kevin Spacey and others.
Hundreds of people marched in Hollywood over the weekend to voice their support of victims of sexual assault and harassment.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright The Other Richards A Bristol-based writer and composer has won Europe's biggest playwriting competition at the fifth attempt.
Timothy X Atack has entered the biennial Bruntwood Prize every time since it began except one.
This year, he has triumphed over 1,897 other entrants to win the 16,000 top prize for his play Heartworm.
Atack, who has already had plays produced on stage and on BBC Radio 4, was named the winner at a ceremony at Manchester's Royal Exchange theatre.
He is currently working at the venue as sound designer on the stage version of the 1978 punk film Jubilee.
Image copyright The Other Richards Image caption Laurie Nunn won a judges' award worth 8,000 The Royal Exchange will now stage his winning play, about a couple who rent their spare room to an unusual guest, in collaboration with London's Royal Court.
Royal Court artistic director Vicky Featherstone described Heartworm as "a brilliantly unnerving and visceral piece of work by a distinctive and vividly theatrical voice".
Judges' awards of 8,000 each went to Tim Foley, Sharon Clark and Laurie Nunn, daughter of former National Theatre artistic director Trevor Nunn.
She entered her debut play King Brown, which explores racism in 1970s Australia.
The judges included screenwriter Russell T Davies, playwright Lucy Prebble and Kirsty Lang, host of Radio 4's Front Row.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption CCTV of acid attack in London club A man has been found guilty of carrying out an acid attack in a packed London club which left 22 people injured.
Arthur Collins, the ex-boyfriend of reality TV star Ferne McCann, threw the corrosive substance at revellers in Mangle E8 in Dalston on 17 April.
The 25-year-old admitted throwing the liquid but had claimed he believed it was a date rape drug.
He was convicted at Wood Green Crown Court.
Andre Phoenix, who was accused of helping him, was found not guilty.
Twenty-two people were injured, 16 of those suffering serious burns, when Collins sprayed acid over revellers inside the busy east London venue at about 01:00 BST.
One man suffered third-degree chemical burns to the left side of the face and required a skin graft.
Others had eye injuries.
Image copyright Met Police Image caption Arthur Collins had denied knowing the substance he threw was acid Phoebe Georgiou, who had been celebrating her 23rd birthday in the club that night, said she still suffers from night terrors and anxiety about being in crowded places having been hit by the substance.
When she was taken to hospital she said she "saw my reflection in the shower hold, which was so shocking because my whole chest looked like it had been ripped apart and I could see the inside of my chest and my arm".
"I have a life sentence to deal with, with scars and mental injuries," she said.
A solicitor for two of the other victims said Collins' "despicable crime" had "changed the lives of so many people in the club that night".
Image copyright @PhieMcKenzie Image caption Twenty-two people were injured when acid was thrown in the Mangle E8 nightclub CCTV shown in court showed clubbers clutching their faces and running off the dancefloor as they were hit with the liquid.
Victims told the jury their skin began "blistering straight away" and described a burning smell.
The liquid was later found to have a rating of pH1, equal to strong acids such as those used in battery acid.
Collins told the court during the trial he had been at the club celebrating the news of Ms McCann's pregnancy, which the couple had revealed to her family the previous day.
He was seen on CCTV getting into a confrontation with a group of men in the club before he sprayed liquid from a bottle over the crowd.
Image copyright Julia Quenzler Image caption Andre Phoenix (left) was acquitted earlier on Monday of helping Arthur Collins (right) carry out the attack Following the trial the Met said Collins had grabbed the bottle "from the back pocket of an unidentified man".
Collins, of Broxbourne, Hertfordshire, had claimed in court he had taken the bottle from that group and thought it was a date rape drug.
However, the jury found him guilty of five counts of GBH with intent, and nine counts of ABH against 14 people.
Collins will be sentenced on 19 December.
Image copyright PA Image caption The attack happened in Mangle E8 in Dalston on 17 April He was not arrested for several days after the attack and was eventually detained when officers Tasered him after he tried to flee by jumping from an upstairs window of a house in Northamptonshire.
Scotland Yard said he answered no comment to all questions put to him after he was detained.
Det Ch Supt Simon Laurence said Collins had intended to "inflict serious harm" on a large number of people in a "barbaric and cowardly act".
Image copyright CPS Image caption Collins sent a message to his sister reading: "Tell mum to mind that little hand wash in my car acid" The court heard Collins had sent a text to his sister a week before the attack, reading: "Tell mum to mind that little hand wash in my car acid".
Collins claimed he was referring to hair-thickening shampoo which contained amino acid, which he needed for his hair after having two hair transplants.
He had said he kept the shampoo in his car so his girlfriend did not find out about his hair loss.
Lily Saw, London CPS reviewing lawyer, said the prosecution had "proved this acid attack was no accident".
"Acid can be as much of a weapon as a knife with equally damaging consequences," she said.
Image copyright Reprise Records Michael Buble is to return to the UK for his first performance since his son was diagnosed with cancer.
The star will top the bill at the BST festival in Hyde Park next July, which is currently his only UK gig in 2018.
Buble and his wife, actress Luisana Lopilato, cancelled all their professional engagements last November after their eldest son Noah, then aged three, began treatment for his illness.
In February, the couple said Noah was "progressing well".
By April, Lopilato was able to confirm that her son was cancer free.
"Thank God, my son is well," she told a press conference in Argentina, while noting that Noah still had a long way to go.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Buble and Lopilato put their careers 'on hold' following the diagnosis "My son's recovery is a long process as you all know and he has to continue with check-ups," she said.
Announcing his Hyde Park show, Buble said: "I can't wait to come over to see my fans in London.
You guys have been patient and I can't thank you enough for all your support.
"And for those of you that haven't seen me live, well I just haven't met you yet!
"He is the third headliner to be announced for the BST festival series, alongside pop star Bruno Mars and Pink Floyd legend Roger Waters.
Buble and Lopilato also have a one-year-old son, Elias.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Getty Images Stormzy had a good night at the MTV European Music Awards: he won the award for best worldwide act for UK and Ireland and performed to thousands of fans at the ceremony in London.
However, it wasn't all plain sailing.
The artist accidentally went into the ladies toilet before his performance, only realising his mistake when hearing "bare girls" outside.
Documenting his mistake on Snapchat, Stormzy worried he would "look mad creepy" if he left the cubicle.
Image copyright Stormzy Luckily Stormzy's mate Kenneth was outside to help him dodge other guests and guide him to safety.
However, the escape attempt was interrupted by singer Anne Marie brushing her teeth opposite the marooned grime artist.
Image copyright Stormzy Unaware of Stormzy's predicament at the time, Anne Marie later found out about the saga on Twitter.
Image copyright Anne Marie Luckily Stormzy managed to escape the toilet in time to perform his single "Big For Your Boots".
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Stormzy performed on top of a police car By George Pierpoint, UGC and Social News
Image copyright AFP/Getty Images Image caption Clockwise from top left: Ben Affleck, Dustin Hoffman, Steven Seagal, Ed Westwick, Harvey Weinstein, Kevin Spacey Since early October, some of the biggest names in arts and entertainment have been caught up in a Hollywood sexual harassment scandal.
Here, in alphabetical order, is a summary of some of the key people who have been accused to date and what they have said in response.
Ben Affleck Image copyright AFP On 11 October, Oscar winner Ben Affleck "sincerely" apologised for acting "inappropriately" towards MTV presenter Hilarie Burton in 2003.
Having condemned producer Harvey Weinstein for his "unacceptable" behaviour, the actor was reminded of and criticised for groping Burton on air.
David Blaine Image copyright Getty Images On 19 October, former model Natasha Prince came forward with claims that the illusionist David Blaine raped her in west London in 2004.
Speaking through a representative, Blaine "vehemently" denied the allegations and pledged to "fully cooperate" with any police investigation.
Louis CK Image copyright Reuters On 9 November, the New York Times reported on five women who had accused US comedian Louis CK of sexual misconduct.
Four of the accusers told the paper he had masturbated during interactions with them, while a fifth said he had asked to do so.
The comedian - full name Louis Szekely - admitted the allegations were true and said he had "wielded power irresponsibly".
Dustin Hoffman Image copyright Getty Images On 1 November, the Hollywood Reporter published a guest column by a former intern who accused Dustin Hoffman of sexually harassing her in 1985.
Anna Graham Hunter accused the Oscar-winning actor of groping her and making inappropriate comments about sex to her when she was 17.
In a statement, Hoffman apologised and said he felt "terrible that anything [he] might have done could have put [Ms Hunter] in an uncomfortable situation."
Roy Price Image copyright Reuters Around 18 October, it emerged that Roy Price, the head of Amazon's film and television arm, had resigned after being accused of sexually harassing a television producer.
Isa Hackett accused the Amazon Studios boss of repeatedly making unwanted propositions to her during a taxi ride in 2015.
Price was also accused by actress Rose McGowan of failing to act on her claim that she was sexually assaulted by producer Harvey Weinstein.
Price has not directly responded to the claims.
Brett Ratner Image copyright Reuters On 1 November, the Los Angeles Times reported on six women who had accused director Brett Ratner of sexual harassment or misconduct.
Among them were Natasha Henstridge, who claimed she was forced into a sex act with Ratner when she was a teenager, and fellow actress Olivia Munn, who accused him of masturbating in front of her in 2014.
Ratner, director of Red Dragon, X-Men: The Last Stand and the Rush Hour films, denied the claims via his lawyer.
Terry Richardson Image copyright AFP On 23 October, the executive vice-president of Conde Nast International instructed staff to drop fashion photographer Terry Richardson from its titles, which include GQ, Vogue and Glamour.
The move followed the publication of a Sunday Times article that claimed the photographer was "the subject of widespread allegations of sexually abusing models over many years".
A representative for Richardson said his subjects had all "participated consensually" in his "sexually explicit" work and that the photographer was "disappointed" by Conde Nast's decision.
Steven Seagal Image copyright AFP On 8 November, actress Portia de Rossi accused action star Steven Seagal of unzipping his trousers while she was auditioning for one of his films.
Actress Julianna Margulies also accused Seagal of inappropriate behaviour, while model Jenny McCarthy repeated an earlier claim she had made against him.
Seagal's manager said the Under Siege star had no comment.
Kevin Spacey Image copyright AFP In an interview published on 30 October, actor Anthony Rapp accused Kevin Spacey of making a sexual advance towards him when Rapp was 14.
In the days that followed, a number of other allegations were made against the two-time Oscar winner by people who claimed he had groped, sexually harassed or made indecent overtures towards them.
Spacey claimed to have no memory of the events Rapp described and later issued an "absolute" denial of the other allegations through his lawyer.
The accusations have had a serious impact on his career, with Netflix pulling the plug on his House of Cards TV series and Sony announcing its intention to excise him completely from an upcoming film release.
James Toback Image copyright Getty Images On 22 October, the Los Angeles Times reported that 38 women had come forward to accuse film-maker James Toback of sexual harassment.
The paper subsequently reported that more than 200 further women had come forward to accuse him of unwanted sexual advances, among them actress Julianne Moore.
Actresses Selma Blair and Rachel McAdams made their own claims against the Oscar-nominated writer of Bugsy in a Vanity Fair piece.
Toback denied the initial allegations but has yet to comment on the others.
In an interview conducted before his accusers went public, though, he accused his accusers of spreading "pathetic lies".
Bob Weinstein Image copyright Getty Images On 17 October, Variety reported on a woman who had accused Bob Weinstein - the brother of producer Harvey Weinstein - of making unwanted romantic overtures towards her.
Amanda Segel, an executive producer of sci-fi series The Mist, claimed that Weinstein had repeatedly asked him to join him for private dinners and that he only desisted when she threatened to leave the show.
Bob Weinstein, co-founder of The Weinstein Company, strongly denied Ms Segel's claims.
Harvey Weinstein Image copyright Getty Images The scandal that has engulfed Hollywood was set in motion on 5 October when the New York Times published a story detailing decades of allegations of sexual harassment against Harvey Weinstein.
Many more allegations of sexual harassment followed, along with public denouncements from stars with whom the producer had worked.
Weinstein was also accused of rape by a number of women.
The producer issued an apology after the initial New York Times story, saying his past conduct had "caused a lot of pain".
After the New Yorker published its own expose, he issued an "unequivocal" denial he had engaged in non-consensual sex through a spokeswoman.
It was subsequently reported that a Canadian actress was suing Weinstein for two sexual assaults that allegedly took place in Toronto in 2000.
Ed Westwick Image copyright Getty Images British actor Ed Westwick issued a strong denial on 7 November after being accused of rape by an actress.
The 30-year-old made another denial when another actress claimed she was raped by the actor at his home.
The BBC subsequently announced that the actor had "paused" filming the second series of White Gold and that Ordeal By Innocence, in which he appears, would not be broadcast until "matters [were] resolved".
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Camila Cabello looked like a literal angel on stage thanks to some helpful lighting It was good news for fans of MTV, Europe, music and awards ceremonies on Sunday night as the MTV Europe Music Awards took place at London's Wembley Arena.
You've probably already seen the winners list and watched the performances - but there's some other stuff you might not have heard about.
Such as James Bay's fashion makeover and Stormzy accidentally using the ladies' loos.
Here's our red carpet round-up.
Liam Payne When we spoke to him, Liam had just discovered his performance was scheduled straight after Eminem's.
"That makes things slightly harder," he said.
"Eminem's was one of the first albums I genuinely used to rock out to on my bed when I was a kid."
He hadn't heard about the night's most important story, though: Stormzy accidentally getting trapped in the ladies' toilets backstage.
"Maybe he thought it said Laddies instead of Ladies," Liam said, before adding apologetically: "That was a Dad joke.
Good to finish on."
Could Liam see himself and the other One Direction lads still performing at awards ceremonies like this a few years (or decades) down the line?
"Who knows?
We might be like the Rolling Stones, just rocking out."
Referring to Mick Jagger, who recently became a father again at the age of 73, he added: "Maybe I'll still be having babies then.
"There's your headline tomorrow!"
Anne-Marie "I'm nervous as hell," said Anne-Marie, using a slightly stronger word than hell which we can't print here.
"Wait, this interview isn't live is it?"
(No, thank goodness.)
Having successfully avoided an Ofcom fine, the singer continued: "I'm not nervous about the performance, when it comes to singing I've got it down, but when it comes to the rest of it, I'm bad at that."
The singer, whose hits include Heavy, Ciao Adios and the Clean Bandit-assisted Rockabye, is currently gearing up for the release of her debut album.
"My music is constantly changing because I am.
I'm writing it and changing as I'm writing," she said.
"So there's going to be a lot of different subjects on there that I talk about, I'm putting my life into it, so I hope people like it."
James Bay It's been a while since we've heard from pop's premier enthusiast, James Bay.
But, scandalously, he made his way down the red carpet without his trademark headgear and said he'd ditched it as part of an image change.
"You know what?
It was time.
I was done," he said.
"Everybody's got to evolve [so] here I am switching it up doing something else, "I think we've all got to embrace that in each other.
And it feels great, like it's time for a whole new thing for me."
With all this hat talk we almost forgot to ask about how his actual music is going.
"I'm hungry to get back to playing, I've got loads of new music now that nobody's heard yet," James said.
"I've managed to make 99% of 2017 about making new music, so I'm basically ready to show everybody, just making those final tweaks, and then I'll be back."
Sabrina Carpenter Sabrina Carpenter set admirably simple goals as she traipsed the red carpet at Wembley Arena.
"I just don't want to trip.
I've been halfway down the carpet already so I'm off to a good start," she told us.
The singer said she's excited about new material she's working on - but was tight-lipped about the collaborations she has lined up.
"The response to [her latest single] Why has been incredible, and I've been writing my third album, so that's why I'm here.
I've been in Sweden, London and Norway writing so I'm excited.
"I'm definitely collaborating with some really cool people.
I'm always up for changing and growth and trying new things.
So you're definitely going to hear some new sounds, whatever they are, on the new album.
There's already some that I'm really excited about."
Any hints about who those duets might be with?
"No!
That would spoil it.
I can't spoil it.
You'll see a very cryptic Instagram at some point and then you'll be like 'It's coming!'"
Ray BLK With the BBC preparing to announce the longlist for the prestigious Sound of 2018, Ray BLK reflected on what topping this year's did for her career.
"I'd say it's definitely helped me with more exposure," she said.
"My advice to anyone in this year's list would be keep on doing what you've been doing before, stay focused, and don't get lost in the noise."
Donae'O While watching Strictly Come Dancing with a takeaway might be our idea of a perfect weekend, Donae'O's included performing at 1Xtra Live on Saturday night before attending the EMAs on Sunday.
"1Xtra Live was really special, there was something in the air.
Everything just really came together well," he said.
On the topic of red carpets and awards ceremonies, he said: "All of this is new to me, but I'm enjoying it.
"I've been on the underground for, like, 16 years so this is a new experience.
I used to see people do this stuff on TV.
And it's a bit scary, but it's new, and you should always try new things out.
"I like to face my fears, because once you get over those things you start enjoying them.
If I can enjoy it now, when you get older you have great memories."
Might get that printed on a tee.
Clean Bandit Ahead of their set at the ceremony, Grace Chatto explained: "It's the biggest performance we've ever done, and we've got lots of extra violinists and drummers joining us in lots of crazy outfits."
For their three-song medley, they brought out Anne-Marie, Julia Michaels and Zara Larsson - the guest vocalists on their three biggest singles this year.
"They're meeting altogether for the first time, so the rehearsals have been really fun," Grace said.
So, having made Christmas number one last year with a refreshingly non-Christmassy song, could they do something more festive-themed in the future?
"I'd really like to do a Christmas song.
It's too late though, we'll have to do it next year," said Jack.
"We've got a Christmas version of Rockabye actually but we're not allowed to use it, because it's too funny."
Yeah, we're going to need to hear that version at some point.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Video British musician Ed Sheeran has returned to the stage for the first time since breaking both arms in a cycling accident.
He told a crowd in Singapore the past six weeks had been the most depressing of his life.
Sheeran had to cancel or postpone several dates on his Asian tour.
Video by Simon Atkinson.
Concert pictures courtesy Priya Suraindran
Image copyright EPA Image caption Irish musician and activist Bob Geldof said he is "shamed" to share the honour with Suu Kyi Bob Geldof has said he will return his Freedom of the City of Dublin in protest against the Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi, who also holds the award.
Mr Geldof said "her association with our city shames us all".
Ms Suu Kyi has faced heavy criticism over her failure to address allegations of ethnic cleansing against Myanmar's Rohingya Muslims.
More than half a million Rohingya have fled to Bangladesh following recent violence.
Mr Geldof, the musician and founder of Band Aid, said in a statement: "Her association with our city shames us all and we should have no truck with it, even by default.
We honoured her, now she appals and shames us."
He is handing back the award at City Hall in the Irish capital on Monday morning.
Why is Bob Geldof returning his award?
Image copyright EPA Image caption Aung San Suu Kyi has faced widespread criticism over her response to reported atrocities Ms Suu Kyi has been condemned by international leaders and human rights groups over her reluctance to acknowledge the military violence, which the UN has called a "textbook example of ethnic cleansing".
There have also been calls for her to be stripped of the Nobel Peace Prize she won in 1991.
Reacting to Mr Geldof's announcement, Lord Mayor Micheal Mac Donnacha of Dublin City Council said on Monday: "I find it ironic that he makes this gesture while proudly retaining his title as Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire, given the shameful record of British imperialism across the globe."
What other reactions have there been?
Fellow Irish musicians U2 also criticised Ms Suu Kyi, the civilian leader of Myanmar, also known as Burma, urging her on Saturday to take a stronger stance against the reported violence by security forces.
In a statement on the band's website, they said her failure to address the crisis was "starting to look a lot like assent".
"So we say to you now what we would have said to her: the violence and terror being visited on the Rohingya people are appalling atrocities and must stop."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Thousands of Rohingya refugees flee to Bangladesh Last month, Oxford City Council decided to strip Ms Suu Kyi of the freedom of the city, which she was awarded in 1997, in an "unprecedented step" for the local authority.
The City of London is also to consider a similar step.
Earlier this month, she was also stripped of the freedom of the cities of Sheffield and Glasgow because of her response to the Rohingya crisis.
St Hugh's College at Oxford University, where Ms Suu Kyi read politics, has removed a portrait of her from display.
What has been going on in Myanmar?
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Rohingya Muslims had to decide what to bring and what to leave.
The violence in Rakhine erupted on 25 August when Rohingya militants attacked security posts in Myanmar's Rakhine state, triggering a military crackdown.
Scores of people have been killed in the crackdown and there are widespread allegations of villages being burned and Rohingya being driven out.
Myanmar's military says it is fighting Rohingya militants and denies targeting civilians.
About 600,000 Rohingya have fled to Bangladesh since 25 August.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption The march was led by Tarana Burke, who started the #MeToo hashtag (centre) Hundreds of people have marched in Hollywood in support of victims of sexual assault and harassment, inspired by the #MeToo social media campaign.
The march follows a torrent of assault and harassment allegations against public figures, set off by revelations about the movie mogul Harvey Weinstein.
The marchers started on Hollywood Boulevard and walked along the "Walk of Fame" to CNN's headquarters.
They were predominantly women but many men attended.
Tara McNamarra, 21, of Los Angeles, told Reuters news agency that the march felt cleansing after years of not being taken seriously about abuse.
"I've been sexually assaulted multiple times throughout my life," she said.
"It's affected me in every aspect of my life."
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Marchers hold placards on Hollywood's Walk of Fame on Sunday The #MeToo hashtag was first used by social activist Tarana Burke and popularised by actress Alyssa Milano in the wake of the Weinstein allegations.
Ms Burke led Sunday's march.
"For every Harvey Weinstein, there's a hundred more men in the neighborhood who are doing the exact same thing," she wrote on Facebook ahead of the event.
"What we're seeing, at least for now, is a unity of survivors, a community of survivors that have grown out of this #MeToo viral moment, that I'm just hoping and praying that we can sustain."
The actor Kevin Spacey and comedian Louis CK are among the high-profile figures accused of sexual harassment over the past few weeks.
Louis CK published an apology on Friday, admitting after years of denials that the allegations were true.
"The power I had over these women is that they admired me.
And I wielded that power irresponsibly," he wrote.
The New York Times reported in October that Weinstein, 65, had settled out of court with eight women who had accused him of sexual harassment and unwanted physical contact.
Weinstein has also been accused of rape, but said through a spokesperson that he "unequivocally denied" any allegations of non-consensual sex.
Image copyright Fery Asgari/Ealing Club CIC Image caption The Who were among the bands to tune their skills at the Ealing Club It's decades since the Ealing Club closed.
With a capacity of 200 it had never made huge amounts of money.
But the new film documentary Suburban Steps to Rockland recalls the club's remarkable role in Britain's booming R&B scene of the 1960s.
The Rolling Stones and The Who played early gigs there.
But without a young Iranian who stumbled by accident into west London, the whole thing might never have happened.
Even at the age of 77, Fery Asgari still talks like a born entrepreneur.
He admits to being "more or less semi-retired" although his business card still says senior property consultant.
In 1962 he took over and reinvented a small music club which was to have a bigger influence than more celebrated venues.
Now Suburban Steps to Rockland tells the story of Fery and the Ealing Club.
Image copyright Fery Asgari Image caption Fery Asgari discovered the venue by chance after hearing the sounds of jazz He'd come to London as a teenager from Tehran.
One day he and a friend left the Iranian embassy in Kensington and got chatting to a couple of English girls.
"We asked where would be a good place to study English and they said Ealing Technical College.
I had no idea where Ealing was but we got on a bus and went there - and that was the next 10 years of my life."
The art school at the college could boast various bands, many in love with the blues.
"I found myself helping to promote the music nights but it was hard to find a venue because the music was so loud.
"Then I was walking near Ealing Broadway station and I heard jazz and I followed it down the steps and I found this little basement music club.
"Within a few weeks I was running the place.
To start with we had jazz on Thursdays and Fridays and R&B on Saturday."
Image copyright Ealing Club Image caption In the early days of the club the entry fee was 25 pence Fifty-five years ago tastes were changing.
Writer Paul Trynka has studied a rich era for British music.
"There was a really wide range of tribes at that time.
They were all intertwined but they had different followers.
"So you got purists like Brian Jones of the Stones who had a passion for a British form of Chicago blues - which people then called R&B, though it's a long way from what we mean by R&B today.
"There was something like an arms race going on where musicians wanted to be the first to use a certain type of guitar or get a certain sound.
Things were moving very quickly.
People who wanted to be cooler than anyone else tended to like R&B.
There was a rawness to it."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The young Rolling Stones in 1964 Asgari recalls R&B initially as entirely a student scene.
"To start with there were two big names who really drew the college crowd.
Cyril Davies was a fantastic blues harmonica player who died early - I think probably people don't remember him much now.
"But Cyril played with Alexis Korner who was a genius with the guitar and later he used to do lots of broadcasting for the BBC.
"Students in those days were such lovely people - very well-behaved and not the way people became later.
They didn't have much money and they just drank cider.
Saturday night it was five shillings to get in - that's 25p.
"There was no problem with drugs until maybe 1964 when a few people began taking pills which I think they'd got from nurses.
But I told them to leave.
Eventually we got a violent crowd in but that was much later.
In the good years we had celebrities turning up like Sonny and Cher.
"Cyril and Alexis attracted younger musicians just to listen.
The excitement in people's faces - I have never seen anything like it.
When I first met the Rolling Stones they had come to the club to have a drink, to hear Alexis play and socialise.
It was only later they started to perform."
Image copyright Fery Asgari/Ealing Club CIC Image caption Paul Jones, later of Manfred Mann, also performed at the club Suburban Steps to Rockland is a reminder of the big names who developed at the Ealing Club after the Davies-Korner era.
Sitting in his office (still in Ealing) Asgari gives a wry smile.
"But that was the problem: when groups got big they weren't going to play a small venue like ours.
"When the Stones first played for us, Brian Jones would come into my office afterwards and we'd sort out the 50-50 split of the door money - it was Brian who was in charge of all their bookings.
The first Saturday they played we took 7.
By the time they played their last Ealing gig it was 33.
"When groups were getting started, they would beg to play.
The club saw lots of groups who became famous like The Who and the Dave Clark Five.
Not everyone became a star but quite a few people did.
"I could see the Rolling Stones taking off week by week.
And they were a pretty good group: certainly we had much worse.
After them came the Mann-Hugg Blues Brothers - which became Manfred Mann.
"The lead singer was Paul Jones and I think Paul and Manfred were two of the really talented people I knew in those days.
But the same thing happened: we couldn't pay the money the performers wanted.
So they would go somewhere like the Eel Pie Hotel on the Thames, which could take far more people."
Image copyright 62 Films Image caption The documentary includes animated sequences Asgari finally closed the club in 1971 and the site has had a chequered history since.
It's now the Red Room and has an uncertain future.
For the past 14 years it's been run by Dubliner Cathal Curtis.
"In the last five years we've tried to put on more live performances: usually we're live three nights a week.
But in truth the live music does not make much money - we're no longer in the glory days of the 1960s when a small venue could be full night after night.
"It's obvious that in London small and medium-sized music venues are struggling.
Every year it gets more difficult to get people through the door.
"The interesting thing is that the number of amateur or semi-pro acts who want to play would almost compare with the bands around in the 1960s.
And I see groups coming in here with musicians in their 20s who could definitely make it to the next level.
"That's how acts like The Who and The Animals got started.
But in London now there are probably half a dozen small venues like the Red Room left.
We're proud of our history going all the way back to what Fery Asgari did and even before that.
But if we go, where will the kids of 19 or 20 perform and learn their trade the way Mick Jagger and Brian Jones did 50 years ago?"
Suburban Steps to Rockland is due for cinema release in the UK in 2018.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Yet again this week's headlines have been dominated by allegations of sexual assault and harassment.
But there were still plenty of other stories causing a stir in the entertainment world.
Here are some of them in case you missed them.
Image copyright PA Strictly fans called it the biggest shock in the show's history when Aston Merrygold exited the show, having enjoyed some of the highest scores in previous weeks and been a favourite to win.
Despite the public vote deciding who ends up in the dance-off, fans took aim at judges Craig Revel Horwood and Shirley Ballas along with Aston's dance partner, Janette Manrara.
Read more on this story Image copyright Getty Images Sia Furler responded to an apparent attempt by paparazzi to sell naked pictures of her by posting one of them herself on Twitter.
The Australian singer-songwriter, known for regularly hiding her face under masks and wigs, tweeted a blurry photo of the back of a naked woman.
Read more on this story Image copyright PA Weakest Link host Anne Robinson revealed she thinks older people have to be "clever and thin" to be on television.
In an interview with the Radio Times, Robinson revealed she is "permanently on a diet" and never eats breakfast.
Read more on this story Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Edward Enninful wants to protect young models Edward Enninful, the new editor of Vogue, told us why he wants to protect young models and why the magazine will be more diverse under his leadership.
The cover of its latest issue drew praise from the fashion and celebrity world.
Read more on this story Image copyright Netflix Netflix's hit show Stranger Things returned last month, bringing back its cast of monster-fighting kids.
The show's stars have received a lot of attention since the show started last year - not all of it welcome.
Read more on this story The first official photo of Jodie Whittaker as she will appear in Doctor Who was released.
Fans were largely impressed, with some saying the outfit was a nod to several previous incarnations of the TV Time Lord.
Read more about this story Image copyright Getty Images The Victoria & Albert Museum announced it is to display a three-storey section of an east London council estate as an example of Brutalist architecture.
The section, which includes two flats, exterior facades and two interior staircases, has been acquired from Robin Hood Gardens in Poplar.
Read more about this story Image copyright Snap Stills/REX/Shutterstock Finally, it was announced that actor John Hillerman - pictured above with Tom Selleck - had died at the age of 84.
The US actor shot to fame as snobbish English caretaker Higgins in Magnum PI, Selleck's '80s TV series about a Hawaii-based detective.
Read more about this story Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Rebel Wilson says a male star repeatedly asked her to perform an obscene act Australian actress Rebel Wilson is the latest Hollywood star to reveal her experience of sexual harassment in the entertainment industry.
In a series of tweets, she alleged that "a male star in a position of power" had repeatedly asked her to perform an obscene act.
"I refused.
The whole thing was disgusting," she said.
Wilson said the unnamed star's male friends had attempted to film the incident before she left the room.
She complained to the film studio about the encounter, but says she was later "threatened by one of the star's representatives".
The Pitch Perfect actress also recounted a second incident which she described as a "hotel room encounter with a top director".
"Nothing physical happened because the guy's wife called and started abusing him over the phone for sleeping with actresses...
I bolted out of there immediately," she said.
Wilson added: "If I witness this behaviour, whether it happens to me or someone I know, I will no longer be polite."
A growing number of sexual misconduct allegations have been made against public figures in recent weeks.
The allegations have been sparked by multiple women speaking out against the Hollywood mogul Harvey Weinstein, and a subsequent campaign encouraging victims to share their stories of sexual harassment under the #metoo hashtag.. Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Margot Robbie wants "something positive" to come out of the Harvey Weinstein allegations Some of the stars facing accusations include Kevin Spacey, who has been accused of predatory sexual behaviour by a number of men, and Steven Seagal, who has been accused of sexual harassment.
Image copyright Atlaspix/Alamy Many of us like nothing more than getting our teeth into a great novel.
But in the case of Irish author Bram Stoker, it was to lead to one of fiction's most enduring characters - Dracula.
Stoker's connections with the Yorkshire town of Whitby have been well documented.
But it was his time in the Aberdeenshire village of Cruden Bay - or Port Erroll as it was known in his day - which appears to have unlocked his creative genius.
Stoker had been sitting on his definitive work for years while working as business manager for the Lyceum Theatre in London before he headed to Cruden Bay for a holiday in 1893.
He already had the plot and characters figured out - but hadn't made a start on the writing.
That was all to change after he started visiting the Kilmarnock Arms Hotel in Cruden Bay.
It was there, in room number eight, that the first few chapters of the book - which was finally published in 1897 - were written.
Image copyright Bram Stoker Estate Image caption Bram Stoker wrote the early chapters of Dracula in Aberdeenshire Cruden Bay resident Mike Shepherd, who is a member of the Port Erroll Heritage Group, is writing a book on Bram Stoker's links to the village, where the author was to spend most summers for the best part of 20 years until his death in 1912.
Based on his research from public sources and local archives, Shepherd believes that the village "nurtured" Dracula by giving Stoker the space, time and atmosphere to bring the character to life.
"As early as 1890, he already had the plot and characters worked out but what I think happened is that he wanted to write Dracula as a popular book," says Shepherd.
"But he was worried about the reputational issues in producing what was for its time increasing the horror ratchet of novels.
"So basically he was blocked for several years, in my opinion, and that changed when he came to Cruden Bay.
"Port Erroll fired up the boiler - it was the spark that got him going."
Image caption Port Erroll in 1896 as Bram Stoker would have recognised it Image copyright Mike Shepherd Image caption Cruden Bay as it is today But there were other factors at work as Stoker sat down to bring the character of Dracula to life, according to Shepherd.
"What Stoker discovered in the village was an ambience of the supernatural," he says.
"The local people here - as common at the time - were deeply religious but they also had a large amount of superstitions and traditions that had absolutely nothing to do with Christianity.
"For example, when people were cooking they would stir their pots in the direction of the sun.
To stir anti-clockwise would be asking for trouble - probably induce food poisoning.
"And at Halloween they would march around the bonfire in the direction of the sun - they wouldn't go the other way."
Image copyright Mike Shepherd Image caption Slains Castle and fang-like rocks nearby may have inspired Stoker, according to author Mike Shepherd Accounts from Stoker's family - including his son Noel who was present in Cruden Bay in 1895 - suggest that Stoker immersed himself in the main character of his most famous novel while he was in Aberdeenshire.
Shepherd explains: "There is some evidence from his family that he decided to get into the mindset of Count Dracula to help him to write the novel.
"It drove his family absolutely bonkers because he started behaving very strangely.
"He withdrew from the rest of his family and if he got interrupted while he was thinking out his book, he'd get very annoyed.
"In fact, he spent most of his time walking up and down Cruden Bay beach, or sitting on isolated rocks on the seashore while writing the book.
"It is a two-mile long crescent-shaped beach and, as he wrote in a later novel The Mystery of the Sea, he thought it resembled a mouth with the rocky headlines at either end looking like teeth.
"He also mentioned that some of the rocks looked like fangs."
Image copyright Mike Shepherd Image caption Did Slains Castle help to inspire Stoker?
Stoker's decision to start on his gothic horror classic may also have been fired by Slains Castle, which overlooks the North Sea.
Shepherd explains: "I think Slains Castle, with its dramatic cliff-top setting, provided him with a degree of inspiration while he was thinking out his novel here.
"There is some evidence that Bram Stoker used the floor plans of Slains to get him going while he was writing his book.
"There's a very distinctive room that still survives in the ruins - the octagonal room.
It is present in the novel, when Jonathan Harker arrives at Castle Dracula."
Image copyright Google Image caption Bram Stoker wrote the early chapters of Dracula in the Kilmarnock Arms Hotel Kilmarnock Arms Hotel owner Lucy Taylor says local weather conditions may also have helped to inspire Stoker during his stays at the hotel.
She explains: "When the haar [cold sea fog] rolls across the front of the hotel it casts a spooky air, and we could imagine Bram Stoker sitting in his bay window looking out and picturing Dracula himself arriving in a cloak of dark mist."
Image caption Dacre Stoker is visiting Cruden Bay to give a talk on his famous ancestor Bram Stoker's Cruden Bay connections have been acknowledged by his estate.
His great-grand nephew, Dacre Stoker, was giving a lecture on his famous ancestor at the Kilmarnock Arms on Monday.
He told BBC Scotland: "Cruden Bay has been on my list of 'Bram Stoker places to visit' for a few years.
"I feel a need to be there to absorb the atmosphere and hopefully experience similar feelings of peace, relaxation, creativity, as Bram did during his many summers there."
Dacre Stoker's visit is being welcomed by local residents.
Shepherd says: "It is remarkable that of all the places Bram Stoker could have chosen to write his books, he chose an Aberdeenshire fishing village more than 500 miles form his London home.
"I believe Bram Stoker found his spiritual home in Cruden Bay and anchored his soul here."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Louis CK has won six Emmy Awards and had 39 nominations US comedian Louis CK has admitted that sexual misconduct allegations made against him by five women are true.
He said he had "wielded power irresponsibly" and could hardly wrap his head around the "scope of hurt" he had caused them.
Four of the accusers told the New York Times he masturbated during interactions with them and a fifth said he had asked to do so.
The allegations led to the release of his new movie being scrapped.
I Love You Daddy - a comedy about an ageing film director, played by John Malkovich, who has a reputation for getting embroiled with young women - was due to have been released in the US on 17 November.
"These stories are true," Louis CK said in his statement, which is reproduced in full at the bottom of this article.
"The power I had over these women is that they admired me.
And I wielded that power irresponsibly."
The comedian added that he regretted the hurt he had inflicted on people he worked with, including his manager Dave Becky, his family, his friends, his children and their mother.
In Thursday's New York Times report, four comediennes - Dana Min Goodman, Julia Wolov, Rebecca Corry and Abby Schachner - and a fifth woman, who spoke on condition of anonymity, made allegations about the entertainer.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Actresses Julia Wolov (left) and Dana Goodman in Hollywood in 2011 Goodman and Wolov said Louis CK stripped naked and masturbated after inviting them to his hotel room during the US Comedy Arts Festival in Aspen, Colorado, in 2002.
Schachner said she called Louis CK in 2003 to invite him to one of her shows and was dumbfounded to realise during their phone conversation that he was masturbating.
"I felt very ashamed," she told the New York Times.
A fifth woman, who did not want to be named, told the newspaper of alleged incidents involving the comic in the late 1990s, while she was working in production on The Chris Rock Show.
Louis CK, who was a writer and producer on the show, repeatedly asked her to watch him perform a sex act, she said.
"He abused his power," she said.
Image copyright Facebook Image caption Abby Schachner told the New York Times she felt "very ashamed" Louis CK's planned appearance on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert was cancelled and HBO announced it would purge Louis CK's past projects from its On Demand service.
The cable TV network also said the comic would no longer participate in a charity comedy special, Night of Too Many Stars, later this month.
On Thursday, a Los Angeles County district attorney Jackie Lacey announced a task force of veteran sex crimes prosecutors to address "the widespread allegations of sexual abuse in entertainment industry".
Louis CK statement in full (warning - contains explicit language) "I want to address the stories told to the New York Times by five women named Abby, Rebecca, Dana, Julia who felt able to name themselves and one who did not.
"These stories are true.
At the time, I said to myself that what I did was okay because I never showed a woman my dick without asking first, which is also true.
But what I learned later in life, too late, is that when you have power over another person, asking them to look at your dick isn't a question.
It's a predicament for them.
The power I had over these women is that they admired me.
And I wielded that power irresponsibly.
"I have been remorseful of my actions.
And I've tried to learn from them.
And run from them.
Now I'm aware of the extent of the impact of my actions.
I learned yesterday the extent to which I left these women who admired me feeling badly about themselves and cautious around other men who would never have put them in that position.
"I also took advantage of the fact that I was widely admired in my and their community, which disabled them from sharing their story and brought hardship to them when they tried because people who look up to me didn't want to hear it.
I didn't think that I was doing any of that because my position allowed me not to think about it.
"There is nothing about this that I forgive myself for.
And I have to reconcile it with who I am.
Which is nothing compared to the task I left them with.
"I wish I had reacted to their admiration of me by being a good example to them as a man and given them some guidance as a comedian, including because I admired their work.
"The hardest regret to live with is what you've done to hurt someone else.
And I can hardly wrap my head around the scope of hurt I brought on them.
I'd be remiss to exclude the hurt that I've brought on people who I work with and have worked with who's professional and personal lives have been impacted by all of this, including projects currently in production: the cast and crew of Better Things, Baskets, The Cops, One Mississippi, and I Love You Daddy.
I deeply regret that this has brought negative attention to my manager Dave Becky who only tried to mediate a situation that I caused.
I've brought anguish and hardship to the people at FX who have given me so much The Orchard who took a chance on my movie.
and every other entity that has bet on me through the years.
"I've brought pain to my family, my friends, my children and their mother.
"I have spent my long and lucky career talking and saying anything I want.
I will now step back and take a long time to listen.
"Thank you for reading."
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Dan Wooller/REX/Shutterstock Image caption Golda Rosheuvel will play the title character in Othello Othello is one of Shakespeare's greatest roles - and next year, there will be a female Othello for the first time in a major modern British theatre.
Golda Rosheuvel will play the jealous Venetian army general at the Liverpool Everyman from April to July.
The production will tackle themes of gender and homophobia - with Othello in a gay relationship with Desdemona - as well as jealousy, race and power.
Director Gemma Bodinetz said that would make it "more alive" for modern crowds.
'Electricity' Othello, who's known as The Moor, secretly marries a senator's daughter and is the victim of a scheming revenge plot by Iago, a white soldier.
"I'm trying to get to the root of the electricity that the original audience would have felt about the dare of this play," Bodinetz said.
"It began to feel quite electric for me that this woman was going to be in charge of so many men and so much testosterone."
Image copyright PA Image caption Gemma Bodinetz was a winner at the UK Theatre Awards In her interpretation, Bodinetz said the "stress and strain and neurosis" of being a female general in a male-dominated army would have been playing on Othello for some time.
"The stress of being as good as a man felt very alive at the moment, actually," the director said.
"And sometimes I've felt it myself as a woman in a position of some authority.
"Not quite an army.
There are always times I want to make sure nobody's ever finding me wanting because of my gender, let alone my race - I don't have to fight that particular battle.
"For me, it was really [about] cranking up the stakes for Othello and the neurotic environment in which she operates, in the most masculine of all worlds."
Rosheuvel is an accomplished Shakespearean performer and no stranger to playing male parts - earlier this year, she was Mercutio in Romeo and Juliet at Shakespeare's Globe.
She was also Agnes in the 2016 film Lady Macbeth.
Award-winning company There have been no major productions with female Othellos in recent times, but they were not unknown in the 19th Century.
At the Queen's Theatre in London in 1833, a Mrs Selby "enacted the part of the valiant Moor to the satisfaction of a numerous audience", according to the London Courier and Evening Gazette.
And in 1856, Miss Percy Knowles "won golden opinions from all sorts of people" for her performance in the title role at the Royal Soho Theatre, The Times reported.
The new Liverpool production will be one of four shows in the second season of the Everyman's revived repertory company.
Bodinetz was named best director at the UK Theatre Awards for successfully relaunching the rep company earlier this year.
The other productions in the 2018 season will be A Clockwork Orange, Paint Your Wagon and The Big I Am, a reworking of Peer Gynt by Liverpool playwright Robert Farquhar.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Reuters A BBC drama has been taken out of the Christmas schedule after Ed Westwick, one of its stars, was accused of rape.
Agatha Christie's Ordeal by Innocence, which was due to be on BBC One, will not be broadcast "until these matters are resolved", the BBC said.
And the former Gossip Girl star has "paused" filming on the second series of BBC Two comedy White Gold.
Westwick has vehemently denied the allegations, which have been made by two women.
One of the accusers has made a complaint of sexual assault to the Los Angeles Police Department.
A BBC spokesperson said: "These are serious allegations which Ed Westwick has strenuously denied.
"The BBC is not making any judgement but until these matters are resolved we will not include Ordeal by Innocence in the schedules.
"The independent production company making White Gold has informed us that Ed Westwick has paused from filming while he deals with these allegations."
The three-part Ordeal By Innocence, adapted from the Agatha Christie novel of the same name, also stars Bill Nighy, Eleanor Tomlinson and Anna Chancellor.
It was expected to be one of the BBC's key festive dramas.
BBC One tweeted a photo from the drama on Tuesday, before it was pulled from the schedule.
Meanwhile, filming had begun on the second series of White Gold, in which Westwick stars as an Essex double glazing salesman.
The actor wrote on Twitter on Tuesday: "It is disheartening and sad to me that as a result of two unverified and provably untrue social media claims, there are some in this environment who could ever conclude that I have had anything to do with such vile and horrific conduct.
"I have absolutely not, and I am co-operating with the authorities so that they can clear my name as soon as possible."
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright PA Image caption Jamie Jewitt, Camilla Thurlow, Olivia Attwood and Chris Hughes were all finalists on this year's Love Island Reality TV - it's got a reputation for being full of talentless, fame-hungry young people who want to make a quick buck rather than build a career.
But 2017 may be seen as the year that changed all that, thanks to the unexpected stars of shows like Love Island and The Only Way is Essex.
Feminism, mental health and positive body image are some of the big talking points that dominated this year's reality shows and got the nation talking.
So as we slip on our sparkly dresses and head to ITV's Gala in London, we take with us the question - did reality TV just become more intelligent?
The moment when bomb disposal expert Camilla Thurlow turned to business director Jonny Mitchell and asked the question "Shouldn't we all be feminists?
Surely you believe in equality?"
may sound like an excerpt from a particularly heated debated on Woman's Hour, but no, it happened in a villa in Ibiza, televised live on ITV2.
Thurlow, who has worked in Cambodia and Zimbabwe, ended a long stint in Afghanistan to take part in the show as a way of overcoming her "social barriers".
Image copyright PA Image caption Camilla Thurlow attended ITV's Gala on Thursday evening She became an instant hit with viewers because of the way she handled herself on screen, using it as a platform to express her views on the Mediterranean refugee crisis and feminism, after she decided to stop dating Mitchell on the show after he told her he felt emasculated by women who wanted to pay their share on dates.
"I hope I've done justice to what is a very important topic," Thurlow tells the BBC.
"Equality, fairness and justice are the things that are most important to me, so I wanted to know I'd respected the feminist movement.
I hope I've helped people have that discussion."
Image copyright Camilla Thurlow/Instagram Thurlow and her now-boyfriend Jamie Jewitt were the runners up on this year's Love Island.
Calvin Klein model Jewitt also used his public profile for good by hosting a TED Talk on social media and how it affects the self esteem of young people.
"You get a good following going on a show like that, it gave me the opportunity to do the things I've always wanted.
That wasn't a post-Love Island decision, it's just the way I wanted to do things in the first place.
My TED talk came from spending years in the advertising industry," he tells us.
Fellow star of the show Chris Hughes shares similar sentiments to Jewitt and uses his profile, which includes nearly two million Instagram followers, to talk about male mental health.
He carefully orchestrated a stunt online, which saw him pretend that water infused with his tears was going on sale in Topman.
Image copyright PA Image caption Olivia Attwood and Chris Hughes came third in Love Island 2017 It turned out to be part of a campaign for World Mental Health Day, in which he encouraged men to talk about their feelings at a time when male suicide is such a prevalent issue in the UK.
"I suffer from anxiety myself and the stunt was portraying the message that men should not bottle up their emotions and should speak out.
Image copyright Topman Image caption Chris Hughes created a mental health campaign for Topman "So many don't speak up and I want to encourage people to get the help they need and bring down the suicide rate in men across the UK, Hughes tells the BBC.
Barber Kem Cetinay and dancer Amber Davies were this year's winners of Love Island, which brought in the biggest number of viewers ITV2 has ever had.
What was it that made it so successful?
The pair think it's because viewers could relate to what the Islanders were going through and became emotionally attached.
"There were heart-aching times for us in the villa and viewers developed a relationship with us," Davies says.
"Me and Amber had so many ups and downs and people invested time in us.
You want to see something real because everyone can relate," Cetinay adds.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Amber Davies got her share of the 50,000 Love Island prize money The prize for winning the show was 50,000, but you'd be naive for thinking its stars are in it for just the love.
Like any reality show, there is serious money to be made from advertising, club appearances and clothing collections, which were all on offer to Love Island contestants once they left the villa.
This new breed of stars likes to be more picky about what they choose to work on and Cetinay is one of them - he says he wants to have a proper career and has always had aspirations of creating his own haircare brand.
"People automatically assume you [want to make quick money].
I'm so passionate about my work, Amber's the same and I love it.
We're always thinking what can we do next," he says.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Olivia Attwood has used her Love Island success to launch a fashion range This is shared by fellow Love Island finalist, Olivia Attwood, who has created a fashion line for online retailer In the Style and expresses how building a brand is more important than making money for a short period of time.
"I'm being selective and thinking about the long-term plan.
I've turned down deals that are tempting because of the money - my focus is staying in the industry long term rather than exhausting everything now."
Someone who knows the importance of using reality TV as a platform for her businesses is The Only Way is Essex's Lauren Pope, who is not only a DJ, but one of the show's most successful entrepreneurs as owner of hair extension brand Hair Rehab London.
"I think being on TV opens you up to a bigger audience you never would have had without it.
It just puts you on a platform where people know you exist and someone setting up a business without that backing may struggle," she tells us.
Image copyright PA Image caption Lauren Pope and Chloe Sims are stars from The Only Way is Essex Being a positive role model to women watching the show is also something she prioritises, along with co-star Chloe Sims, who regularly opens up about the struggle of being a single parent on the show.
"I wouldn't have a salon if it wasn't for TOWIE, but I think the success comes from us being normal people," Sims adds.
"As a group of girls we all represent strong women on the show, especially me and Lauren as we don't take crap from anyone and I think that's a good message to give to people."
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Video BBC Music reporter Mark Savage gives his first impressions of Taylor Swift's sixth album, Reputation.
Image copyright Snap Stills/REX/Shutterstock Image caption Hillerman played the caretaker of Thomas Magnum's luxurious Hawaiian residence John Hillerman, the US actor who shot to fame as snooty English caretaker Higgins in Tom Selleck's '80s TV series Magnum PI, has died at the age of 84.
Hillerman's publicist said he died of natural causes on Thursday at his home in Houston, Texas.
Born in 1932, Hillerman started out on stage before landing small roles in such '70s classics as The Last Picture Show, Blazing Saddles and Chinatown.
But he is best known for Magnum, which won him a Golden Globe and an Emmy.
Hillerman beat several British actors to the Higgins role, which he once called "the best gig I've ever had".
He proved so convincing that he once received a fan letter from the UK describing him as "a credit to the Empire".
"I hate to disappoint you, but I'm a hick from Texas," he would write back to fans who assumed he was British.
The actor was last seen on screen playing a doctor in 1996 comedy A Very Brady Sequel.
Larry Manetti, who played bar owner Orville "Rick" Wright in Magnum, remembered Hillerman on Twitter as a "good friend".
Others tweeted tributes using pictures of 'Higgins' with his loyal Doberman Pinschers, Zeus and Apollo.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Video Breaking Bad star Bryan Cranston has told the BBC there may be a way back for Harvey Weinsten and Kevin Spacey, if they show they are "truly sorry".
Speaking to the BBC's Will Gompertz, he added "it would take a society to forgive them".
Film producer Weinstein has denied all allegations of non-consensual sex made against him.
Actor Kevin Spacey has faced allegations of sexual harassment and predatory behaviour.
Discussing the recent wave of sexual assault allegations in Hollywood, Mr Cranston said it had raised awareness of "a societal problem".
UK users can watch the full interview on the BBC News at Ten, BBC One on Monday 13 November or later on BBC iPlayer.
What has Suu Kyi said about Rohingyas?
She's facing a backlash from supporters in the West over her handling of violence and killings in Myanmar.
Video British supermodel Naomi Campbell has said she's saddened by stories of abuse within the fashion industry.
She told the BBC's Arts Editor Will Gompertz that it was "just the beginning" as "the lid's now been opened".
The art of filling time The birth of the royal baby resulted in intense media coverage, but for many hours, there was little to report.
John Humphrys discusses filling for time with Giles Brandreth and Jennie Bond.
Video Grazia is the latest UK magazine to be criticised for airbrushing the hair of black women.
Lupita Nyong'o complained she'd been made more "Eurocentric" on the front cover.
Musician Solange Knowles fell out with the Evening Standard after it airbrushed her braids from an image.
The first official photo of Jodie Whittaker as she will appear in Doctor Who has been released.
She is seen in cropped teal culottes with yellow braces, as well as a striped jumper and long trench coat.
The Broadchurch and Trust Me star has begun filming as the 13th Time Lord.
Whittaker, the first female Doctor, takes over from Peter Capaldi and will make her debut on screen when the Doctor regenerates in the Christmas special on BBC One.
Her look is completed with brown boots, blue and turquoise striped socks and some unusual earrings, at the top and bottom of her left ear.
Image caption The Tardis can be seen in the background of the image Image copyright Facebook/BBC Image caption Readers of the BBC News Entertainment Facebook page were keen to comment Fans have already started dissecting the look - which also features a rainbow-stripe trim to the pale-coloured coat.
And some have already noticed a similarity to costumes worn on another sci-fi programme - Mork and Mindy.
And another said they approved of the look as a whole - but wondered where her tie was.
There appear to be references to previous incarnations of the Time Lord in the outfit.
The new Doctor isn't the first to wear braces - they were seen, most recently on 11th Doctor Matt Smith.
And the stripes on the jumper could be seen as a nod to those on the striped scarf won by Tom Baker's Doctor.
It's not gone unnoticed by fans with one saying it "has great elements from previous Doctors".
Image caption Whittaker will be joined by Mandip Gill, Bradley Walsh and Tosin Cole When her casting was announced in July, Whittaker said it felt "overwhelming, as a feminist" to have the role.
She told fans not to be "scared" by her gender.
She said: "It's more than an honour to play the Doctor.
It means remembering everyone I used to be, while stepping forward to embrace everything the Doctor stands for: hope."
In a trailer that was released at the time, Whittaker was seen in a dark hood and long grey coat - but said that wouldn't be part of her official Doctor Who outfit.
She will be joined in the cast by Bradley Walsh, Tosin Cole, Mandip Gill and Sharon D Clarke.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Getty Images Walt Disney has announced a deal to make three new Star Wars movies.
The company said it had struck a deal with Rian Johnson, director of the upcoming "Star Wars: The Last Jedi", to create a new trilogy of the science fiction blockbuster.
Disney is also working on a live-action Star Wars series for a new online streaming service.
The news overshadowed Disney's first drop in annual profits since 2009, amid steep competition from online rivals.
Profits for the year to September fell 4% to $8.98bn (6.8bn).
Disney's shares fell initially in after-hours trading on the release of its results, but they then rallied to 1% higher on news of the new Star Wars movies.
Chief executive Bob Iger said: "We remain optimistic about our future, in part because quality truly does matter."
The entertainment giant also plans to launch a sports-focused ESPN+ app in the spring, and a Disney streaming service in 2019.
Mr Iger said those investments, which add to an existing Disney subscription service in Europe, were "vital" to the firm's future.
"Our goal here is to be a viable player in the direct-to-consumer space, a space that we all know is a very compelling space to be in," he said.
He declined to address reports that the company had held talks with 21st Century Fox about acquiring parts of its business, but he did not rule out an acquisition.
"I don't think there's ever such a thing as having too much quality."
Under pressure Disney is grappling with a challenge from online video, which has won viewers of traditional television and movies and is driving a shift away from cable television.
In the fourth quarter of Disney's financial year, covering the three months to the end of September, profits dipped 1% to $1.7bn.
Quarterly revenues fell 3% to $12.8bn as the impact of hurricanes, lower advertising revenue and a decline in cable subscriptions weighed on the results.
Revenue in its movie division sank 21%, which Disney said was due to a tough comparison with last year, when a new Star Wars movie lifted results.
Disney's parks and resorts business, which has steadied results in recent quarters, was the only division that reported year-on-year revenue growth in the quarter, rising 6%.
But even that unit was affected by the hurricanes that struck the US earlier this year.
Disney said that accounted for a roughly 3% decline in US attendance.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Kim Kardashian West spoke at the Forbes Women's Summit in June 2017 Kim Kardashian West tweeted last year that she had made $80m (62m) from her video game app.
Her latest project, ScreenShop, could see her add some serious cash to her tech empire as it's released worldwide.
The app, which lets social media users buy what they see in posts, is something Kardashian West says she has "never seen before".
It works on platforms like Instagram, Facebook and Snapchat by matching clothes you see on them to the exact items.
The reaction hasn't been entirely positive, though, with some bloggers afraid that the app will stop them from earning commission from sales via their own social media platforms.
ScreenShop also offers you cheaper alternatives because items on celebrities are likely to be designer or have high prices.
The app uses technology to show copies and similar items.
This feature is something Kardashian West approves of.
"I obviously want to invest my time in projects that I really think people would want and things I haven't seen before," she tells Vogue.
"Shoppers are so much more visual and so much more creative than maybe in the past.
"I truly think if they see something worn a certain way, if you market it that way and merchandise it that way in the store, people will buy it."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Kim's eye-catching outfits will be searchable online Katie Baron, a fashion writer and global head of retail at Stylus Media Group, tells the BBC that Kardashian West's app "means serious business in an era where instant digital gratification is pretty much expected".
"It's not quite as seamless as the initial headline may suggest," she says.
"You still need to take a screenshot, upload it, scour through the various options and then be redirected to a retail website to buy.
"But it's possibly one of the best tools to date for translating the power of social media, driven by a youth sector who talk a largely visual language, into cold hard cash.
"Brands, of course, just have to hope that these social media fashion fans don't always go for the budget option, or that there's a way within the app to surface their products.
Without that, many brands will be left in the cold."
ScreenShop has struck commission deals with big name brands ASOS, Topshop, Boohoo and Forever 21.
These companies will provide a databases of items and better matches of clothes, but other retailers' items will still be featured as part of search results.
Kardashian West and the tech creators she has built the app with will make money by taking a small slice of the sales made on the app.
This is where it gets complicated, as the app could cause all sorts of problems for bloggers and influencers.
That's because many of them already have their own system in place, which gives them a commission when their followers buy clothes they post online.
Em Sheldon is a blogger and Instagram influencer with an online following of more than 100,000 users.
One of the ways she makes money is through affiliate links, which are clickable links that take you to buy the clothes she is wearing.
She earns a small commission from the sale, but it doesn't cost the shopper any more than if they would have found the item on their own.
Image copyright Em Sheldon/ Like To Know It Image caption Em Sheldon's profile on LIKEtoKNOW.it, which helps her make money from clothes she wears She tells the BBC: "A blogger is a personal shopper for you, you pay absolutely no more money, sometimes the blogger will have a discount code for you or scout out the best deals.
"We make a tiny percent [of the sale price] for a lot of work - finding constant sales, which benefit the buyers.
"Bloggers spend thousands on clothes and make absolutely no money so making 10p per sale is nothing to the customer but helps the blogger."
She says ScreenShop stops a key revenue stream for bloggers because instead of them clicking on their links, followers will simply use the app to find out where bloggers' clothes are from.
"[Kardashian West] is monetising our content and making money out of our fashion sense and style," Sheldon says.
Other bloggers have agreed, including influencer Lydia Millen, who posted on Twitter that the app "can't be fair".
The system bloggers use to make money from their outfits is an app and website called LIKEtoKNOW.it, made by the company rewardStyle.
The app shows the exact clothes worn by bloggers on their own websites and social media, and also has its own section to shop screenshots too.
RewardStyle's co-founder Amber Venz Box tells the BBC she finds Kim's app and use of technology "flattering".
"Imitators like this only further confirm what we know well - consumers are inspired by influencers and they want to shop their looks," she says.
Venz Box says what separates ScreenShop from LIKEtoKNOW.it is that her company pays bloggers commission, which Kardashian West is not set to do.
Venz Box's app compensates bloggers based on how many items they help sell and how much they cost.
"I created rewardStyle in 2011 as a solution to monetise my fashion blog and today, rewardStyle provides monetisation to 20,000 hand-picked influencers through a global technology platform," she says.
Katie Baron acknowledges the appeal of apps like LIKEtoKNOW.it, but likes the fact ScreenShop turns any image into a "shoppable inspiration" rather than just being the photos from an "elite band of influencer bloggers".
"This could effectively democratise the system once again, which is fantastic, with so many bloggers having transitioned from a point of genuine excitement to little more than new generation advertising space," she says.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
After months of build-up and publicity, Taylor Swift's sixth studio album finally arrived on Friday.
Will Gompertz was Ready For It.
We know Taylor Swift is shamelessly light-fingered when it comes to appropriating her musical influences.
It's one of her gifts, to take the best of the rest and make it her own.
She's at it again on Reputation, so much so you could turn the listening of it into a parlour game this Christmas, playing spot the riff or reference.
The sharp-eared might think they can discern a Madonna inflection, a Lorde chord, or a Lily Allen phrase.
Maybe even a Yazoo beat, a Billy Joel build, or Eminem's syntax.
Right Said Fred is in there for sure, as is - possibly - a nod to Laurie Anderson's O Superman.
There are literary references too.
Charles Dickens, F Scott Fitzgerald and - perhaps unknowingly - Kurt Vonnegut, all make fleeting appearances.
Swift and her producers Shellback, Max Martin and Jack Antonoff have blended them all together like masterchefs, serving up an album of perfectly formed, clinically produced, contemporary pop songs.
Image copyright Reuters Catchy hooks, sing-a-long choruses, and an electro-synth driven dynamism underpin an album, which unusually and impressively, is greater than the sum of its parts.
All the songs are good - if simple.
Some are great, such as Gorgeous.
But taken as a piece, as a cycle of songs that tell an overarching story of a singer-songwriter growing up, getting wise, and taking control of her life, it bears comparison to Adele's 21 as a coming of age album by an artist giving full vent to her talents.
It's still all about boys, of course.
But there's a refreshing bite to her lyrics.
"I don't regret it one bit because he had it coming," she sings in her revenge song I Did Something Bad.
And, "I don't like your little games... no, I don't like you," in the multi-persona Look What You Made Me Do, in which she announces the "old Taylor is dead".
That's not true.
The old Taylor is alive and kicking.
Image copyright Universal Music Image caption Reputation's newsprint-style front cover references Swift's relationship with the media She might drink a bit more, and swear occasionally, but a vulnerability remains, which is poignantly evident in Delicate, where she describes that tricky (delicate) time at the beginning of a new love affair where you don't want to blow it by seeming to be overly keen.
"Is it cool that I said that?
/ Is it chill that you're in my head?"
Swift prides herself on her writing.
She has said in the past that she sees herself as a lyricist first and singer second.
And she is handy with a pen, but Bob Dylan she is not.
The clichs that crop up here and there jar, such as: "Why do you have to rain on my parade?"
in the otherwise joyously caustic This is Why We Can't Have Nice Things.
And the opening line of I Did Something Bad, which is: "I never trust a narcissist but they love me," is delivered without any noticeable sense of irony.
So, there's room to develop a sense of humour in Swift's new provocatively arch incarnation.
Image copyright AFP But her voice is strong and textured, although too often concealed behind a veil of production.
When it's let loose, most noticeably in the stripped back New Year's Day - the album's final track - you hear a singer who can communicate feeling and thought with touching depth and sincerity.
Reputation, like Taylor Swift, is a product of its time.
It's an overtly commercial, well-targeted, highly professional piece of pop art.
And in that context, like one of those big shiny abstract sculptures that adorn cities around the world, it fits perfectly into our globalised landscape.
Read more: Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Getty Images "He had a very dark presence and a dark charisma."
Actress Hayley Atwell is talking about disgraced movie mogul Harvey Weinstein, whom she has met twice at public events.
She counts herself "incredibly lucky" at never having been left alone with him.
"I don't think he's a sex addict - I think he's a predator," she says.
"He harassed women and therefore he should be punished in the highest way the law offers."
The 35-year-old, best known for her role as Peggy Carter in the Captain America films, also wants to set the record straight about being labelled a "fat pig" by Weinstein.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Atwell believes Weinstein "should be punished in the highest way the law offers" A story recently surfaced that the powerful producer told her over lunch, during the 2007 filming of Brideshead Revisited, that she looked like a "fat pig" on screen and ordered her to lose weight.
Her co-star, Emma Thompson, then allegedly reprimanded Weinstein telling him he was a misogynist and a bully, threatening to quit the film.
Atwell says that's not the way things happened.
"I was asked how I would feel, given I've got a curvy body, about losing weight - because 1920s flapper girls did not look like that," she explains.
"It was put to me in a delicate way, very discreetly, very subtly - by someone not related in any way to Harvey Weinstein.
Image copyright BBC/Shutterstock Image caption Hayley Atwell with co-stars Matthew Goode and Ben Whishaw in Brideshead Revisited "But the question was enough to anger Emma [Thompson] who said to me very clearly: 'You are a very good actor.
You are not a model.
This is a very dangerous path if you start to succumb to the wishes of Hollywood to make you look a certain way.
If they ask you again, not only will I walk off the set but I'll take this issue to the press.'
"She was extraordinary about it."
The actress, who is starring in a new BBC adaptation of Howards End, says she was "upset" about the term "fat pig" suddenly being bandied around in relation to her.
"No one has spoken to me rudely about my weight, ever," she says.
"And in fact, one of the least interesting things about any of the work I've done is how much I weigh.
"I find it another way of controlling women."
'You normalise it' Atwell says she can't remember having directly experienced sexual harassment at work.
But says she "can see that it happens", adding she has "instinctively had a feeling of it" when she walks into a room of powerful men.
"I've been groped in the street a number of times.
I've received lots of sexually explicit messages on Instagram and had drunk men at bars coming up to me.
You normalise it."
Image copyright PA Image caption Hayley Atwell describes Emma Thompson as a "friend and mentor" The actress views the allegations from women across various industries in the wake of the Harvey Weinstein scandal as an "exciting opportunity".
"There is something quite extraordinary that's happening now," she says.
"Everyone is talking about it and everyone's addressing it.
"I think certainly people who have harassed women in the past are probably shaking in their boots because they are expecting to be exposed at any time.
"And that in itself is a potentially very exciting opportunity now to create a much, much safer working environment, especially for the next generation of young women coming up."
Atwell adds it's also about "teaching young women not to just accept it as the norm anymore - because that norm is changing."
Image caption Hayley Atwell as Margaret Schlegel in Howards End Atwell is starring in a new BBC adaptation of EM Forster's Howards End, as the vivacious and headstrong Margaret Schlegel in turn-of-the-century Britain.
The four-part series is a colourful, vibrant portrayal of Edwardian society.
The characters are dressed in bright reds and blues - rather than the muted colours you might typically see in a period drama.
Margaret and Helen Schlegel (Phillipa Couthard) feel modern and relatable - they really move around the screen, literally running around.
The sisters speak over each other and squabble, as well as console each other, as families today would.
'Humour and wit' Atwell says they wanted to dispel the idea of women back then being "stiff-mannered" and "austere".
She puts this misconception down to the fact that photographs took so long to take that everyone had to freeze.
"We managed to find an archive of action shots of Edwardian women," Atwell explains.
"They're blurry but you can see them striding down the street - skirts swaying in the breeze, books and cigarettes in hand, laughing and knocking their heads back.
"They spoke like we do, they had movement, they had energy, they had a great sense of humour and wit."
Image caption Matthew Macfadyen plays Henry Wilcox while Phillipa Coulthard plays Helen Schlegel Equality of the sexes comes up as a strong theme in the series, with the Schlegel sisters striving for a more equal society.
This is in direct opposition to matriarch Ruth Wilcox, who claims it's best to "leave action and discussion to men".
Despite this, it's Mrs Wilcox who has the power in her family.
Atwell sees feminism both in Howards End and the here and now as a complex and contradictory matter.
Asked whether she classes herself as a feminist, she hesitates before vehemently declaring: "I am!"
"But I have to be clear about what my definition of feminism is," she adds.
"And feminism to me is not women, women, women - it's equality between the sexes."
'Too scared' Asked about whether she has experienced the negative effects of gender pay disparity, she muses: "I wouldn't be surprised if I had been and not known it at the time.
"Before, I was too scared to find out.
It's not nice to find out you've been played or undermined or considered your contribution worth less because of your sex."
It's this pay gap, she decides, which is crucial to the overall attitude towards women in society.
"That then trickles down into social interaction, into how men and women can normalise the undermining of women, the stereotype of being a bimbo, of body-shaming women to still believe that they're not enough until they are a size zero."
It's all part of a bigger picture where women are "still patronised and condescended to and spoken down to", she believes.
So what's the solution?
Well, not "stamping feet and hating men" says Atwell, which she deems "childish, immature and reductive."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Atwell sees the fall-out from the Weinstein scandal as an "exciting opportunity" Atwell says it's about the "calling out of abuse of power when people see it", and realising "it's no longer acceptable to do certain things in the work place."
It's also having multi-faceted female roles on screen.
"I'd certainly love to see the women I come across in everyday life being better represented," says Atwell.
And it's the strong-willed, dynamic Margaret Schlegel roles in life which Atwell says influence younger generations of women to think "oh, that's what I could do!
Oh, that's the part I could take!"
It's unclear if she means in real life or on the screen.
Then again, she could mean both.
Howards End begins on BBC One at 21:00 GMT on Sunday 12 November.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Taryn Southern Image caption Taryn Southern is making an entire album co-written by artificial intelligence software "Ugh," my dad used to grunt when I switched on Radio 1 .
"This music sounds like it was written by a computer".
It's a criticism that's been levelled at synthpop for years.
But what if it was true?
Taryn Southern, a YouTube star and content creator, has just released a song she wrote with the help of artificial intelligence.
Called Break Free, it's a brooding ballad that wouldn't sound out of place on the Hunger Games soundtrack.
Southern wrote the lyrics and melody, but the backing track was built by her laptop, after she punched in a number of settings for the song's mood, tempo and instrumentation.
"My new collaborator is not human," she grins.
"It's an AI algorithm".
As a YouTuber, Southern is used to adapting new technology, and her interest in AI was sparked by an article on The Verge, describing how programmers at Sony had fed the Beatles' back catalogue into a computer and urged it to write a new Lennon-McCartney track.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Could AI eventually write songs in the style of The Beatles?
And would you want it to, even if it could?
The result may have been hilariously naff, but it prompted the headline: "This AI-written pop song is almost certainly a dire warning for humanity."
Southern was less sceptical.
"I'm a naturally curious person," she says.
"So I did some research."
Last January, she started downloading open-source programmes which promised to write songs from scratch.
"Most of these algorithms work by ingesting a large amount of data from a certain genre, so the AI can learn the 'rules'," she explains.
"What chord structures are most common, that sort of thing."
Musicians' fears Pulling out her laptop, she fires up one of the programmes.
We ask it to write a Reggae song, using Scott Joplin's The Entertainer as inspiration.
The result is well, as terrible as the description sounds.
But there's a recognisable bounce to the bassline, and a distinct progression from intro to verse to chorus.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The BBC's quick guide to Artificial Intelligence Southern admits it takes a lot of tinkering to get a decent song out of the software.
"It requires a fair amount of human collaboration.
You can't just press a button and create magic."
Indeed, she's been collaborating with companies who make the software - including a startup called Amper Music, IBM's Watson, platform and Google's Magenta - helping them improve, and even "hacking" the composing tools herself.
Less than a year since she started, Southern has an EP of songs ready for release; and plans to have an album - I Am AI - available next year.
"There are some awesome new toys coming out that I really wanted to include," she says.
Image copyright Taryn Southern Image caption The singer says the speed of the software means she can write a song from scratch in under an hour Earlier this week, Southern performed Break Free live for the first time at the WebSummit in Lisbon, Portugal.
It received an enthusiastic welcome from the audience of tech-heads and coders.
But what have other musicians made of her experiments with AI?
"It's totally split down the middle," she says.
"Half of them have been very interested in learning about it; while other ones have said, 'Why are we playing around with this stuff.
It's going to be take our jobs.'"
Unsurprisingly, Southern isn't swayed by that argument.
She says AI is "just a tool" like a drum machine or synthesizer.
'The message was human' "The reality is that humans adapt.
It's the tools that become irrelevant."
"It's the heart that makes the music," she insists, directing me to a video on her YouTube channel called Voices In My Head.
"On that video, the music was created by artificial intelligence.
But the message was human - and a deeply personal one at that."
"I think people will find a way to embrace it.
It's inevitable."
But she does foresee legal issues over who owns the songs created by AI.
"With my song Break Free, I actually gave Amper, who made the AI, some of the back-end royalties.
I felt that was appropriate.
"They composed the song, it's just there was a heavy amount of arrangement afterwards.
"So these questions are coming up and I'm doing my best to figure it out in a way that is favourable to artists."
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
A.Dot is having a good year.
In the past month alone, the presenter has launched BBC One's new music show Sounds Like Friday Night, led 1Xtra to its highest ever breakfast show audience, and, perhaps most importantly, purchased some new gardening utensils.
"My proudest moment was when I invested in a leaf-blower," she tells BBC News.
"I take great care of my garden, and I think there are moments in life when you realise you're an adult, and one of those is when you buy your first leaf-blower from Argos."
Well put.
Successful leaf maintenance aside, Dotty (whose real name is Ashley Charles), has every reason to be in a good mood.
Image caption A.Dot singles out Ellen as one of her favourite guests yet Last month's radio listening figures (or Rajars, as they're known in the industry), showed that the 1Xtra breakfast show she fronts now reaches 390,000 people every week - making her the most successful morning host in the station's history.
"The Rajars were great news, it's always an incredible vote of confidence to see statistically, in an industry-recognised metric system, that you're doing well," she says.
"But I think if you allow the praise to define you, then you'll ultimately allow the criticism to diminish you.
"So I try not to focus too much on the Rajars.
As incredible as the figures have been, I try to just make sure it's business as usual."
The 29-year-old is speaking to BBC News ahead of Thursday evening's Student Radio Awards, which recognise upcoming broadcasting talent.
(Winning best male at the ceremony in 2006 put Greg James on Radio 1's radar and led to a daytime presenting job.)
Dotty says her advice to anyone keen to get into radio presenting "would be to not try and emulate any broadcasters that have come before you".
"I think there are some greats," she says.
"Terry Wogan was an incredible broadcaster.
Scott Mills, if you ever want to learn how to be absolutely slick on radio, is a great example.
"But I think the most important thing about being a new broadcaster is you can learn from those people that have come before you, but you should always try to find your voice, and work out exactly where you fit in this growing industry."
Image caption Dotty cites Terry Wogan and Scott Mills among her radio inspirations She goes on: "For me, when I first started on radio, I wasn't trying to be like any other presenter.
I wanted to be the anti-presenter.
"So where your traditional presenter would say, 'wasn't that a brilliant song', I'd rather be the person that says, 'well, that song is six out of 10' - you know, just be honest.
And I thought maybe my thing can be that I'm honest, and say what people are thinking."
The formula seems to be working - as her breakfast show has just been extended to four hours, and now starts at 6am.
Image copyright PA "When Blue Planet II ended on Sunday, it was bedtime," she says of her new early starts.
"Before, I might have another half hour.
But the new start time means I have to go to sleep slightly earlier, I can't stay up past 9.30 at all."
But on the plus side, she's turned into a morning person.
"If you'd asked me a year ago, I would've said it's dreadful waking up early," she says.
"But I've been doing the 1Xtra breakfast show for just over a year now and I've really found my groove in that time.
I used to be a bit of a night owl, but now I'm as perky as you like, so I can't complain about the early mornings at all."
Image caption A.Dot interviewed Denzel Washington earlier this year Her year on the breakfast show has seen her interview so many high-profile figures that she struggles to pick just one highlight.
"Ooh, that's a tough one," she laughs.
"Might be Denzel Washington.
He's certainly up there.
"It was incredible to speak to Ellen as well, she was a great interview."
When Dotty spoke to Ellen DeGeneres last year, she asked the US chat show host whether she felt a responsibility to represent the gay community.
In her answer, Ellen said: "I don't wake up in the morning and go, 'I'm gay, let's go'," - before Dotty brilliantly cut in, joking: "I do.
Every day, in the mirror."
Now that Dotty has a more public platform, does she feel any such responsibility to the LGBT community herself?
Image caption You know you've made it when you've appeared on Celebrity Mastermind "For me, what I'm particularly proud of is that I'm able to be a voice or a face that people may not have readily had when I was growing up," she says.
"There wasn't anyone really that I could look to and say, 'that's a person like me on the TV', so for me the responsibility is in hopefully being a great role model to those people that didn't necessarily have one from my walk of life."
This weekend, Dotty will be co-hosting 1Xtra Live, which will see Bryson Tiller, J Hus, Donae'o and Stefflon Don take to the stage in Manchester.
Until 2012, it could easily have been A.Dot herself performing at such an event - she was a rapper before getting into radio.
But she says: "I haven't done music for four years now, so for me I wake up every day and I'm a broadcaster, and I get to be a music fan again.
"When you're making music, you're very much in your own bubble, you're having your studio sessions, and you're focused on your music and your sound.
"Being a musician for all of those years made me the best version of a broadcaster that I can be, so I look at that as the prelude to where I am now."
1Xtra Live will be broadcast live on BBC Radio 1, 1Xtra and Asian Network from 20:00-23:00 GMT on 11 November, and will be available on 1Xtra's website and the BBC iPlayer.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Sam Smith surprises fans on his upcoming BBC One show Backstage at the BBC's studios in Elstree, Sam Smith is wandering around in a silk kimono and ruby red stilettos.
"Babe, I don't understand," he complains down his phone.
"They're letting Fearne [Cotton] wear heels, so why can't I wear heels?"
Don't worry, he's not gone full Mariah.
It's all in aid of a sketch for his TV special, Sam Smith at the BBC, which airs on Thursday.
In real life, the singer tries his best to remain humble.
"I don't ask for puppies in my dressing room," he laughs.
"But sometimes - and I'm really embarrassed about this - when they're doing my make-up before I go onstage, people do up my laces for me.
"I hate it.
I feel like a diva.
A diva or a three-year-old."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The star made his name with guest spots on records by Disclosure and Naughty Boy Still, there was a time after the phenomenal success of Smith's debut album, In The Lonely Hour, when his head was turned by fame.
He was hanging out with Beyonce and Justin Timberlake at Taylor Swift's 25th birthday party, and jetting off to Mexico for the world premiere of Spectre, the Bond film for which he wrote the Oscar-winning theme.
"I did get a bit I wouldn't say big-headed, but I was living in that scene way too much, and I needed to be brought back down to earth," he says bashfully.
"There was one time when I wore a new pair of pants every day and threw all the old ones away.
I got obsessed with wearing different pants every night.
"But that only lasted a month," he says with a huge peal of laughter.
"I rewear all my pants all the time now."
Smith, it has to be said, is not the sad, fragile young man he's often portrayed to be.
Yes, his emotions run close to the surface, but he's also funny, forthright and supremely ambitious.
"I want to play Wembley Stadium one day," he declares, the suggestion being it's inevitable, not some distant dream.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Sam Smith on winning best original song at the Oscars We speak on the day his second album, The Thrill Of It All, is released.
Smith has just come back from a signing at HMV in Oxford Street, where he wasn't mobbed so much as sobbed.
"The stories people were telling me: Oh my God!
I was trying not to cry the whole time."
"I forget sometimes just how intense the music is."
The 'dangerous' second album Smith's second album has a lot to live up to.
Its predecessor was the fastest-selling debut by a British male solo artist in US chart history; making the 25-year-old a four-time Grammy winner, with four UK number one singles and an Oscar to boot.
In interviews, he's described the new album as "dangerous" - a description that seems at odds with its accessible, soul-searching ballads.
So what did he mean?
"For me, it was dangerous because I couldn't hear these songs on the radio," he explains.
"Just because of the climate of pop music right now.
I don't think my music fits that well."
He's wrong, of course.
The album went silver in the space of three days, and it's comfortably winning the race to be this week's number one - on both sides of the Atlantic.
"The reception has been incredible.
I'm just so shocked," the star says.
Settling down in his record company's boardroom, surrounded by his own gold discs, Smith delved into the album's key tracks, revealing some of the secrets behind his latest love songs.
Too Good At Goodbyes The album's first track is also its first single; a gospel-inspired ballad in which Smith pushes his lover away to avoid getting his heart broken.
Key lyric: "I'm never gonna let you close to me / Even though you mean the most to me / 'Cause every time I open up, it hurts."
Sam says: "The relationship this song is about was kind of tumultuous.
It ended a few times... but by the last time, I knew I'd be OK because I had a plan in place.
"That's what the song is saying: Every time you're hurting me, I'm crying less.
I know I'm going to be OK because I've become too good at this now.
I've done it before.
"So I'm actually not that good at goodbyes.
I'm the worst!
But I was trying to convince myself in this song."
Him Image copyright Capitol Records Image caption Sam Smith: "I wanted my new album to mean something, and for it to be deep."
Sam tells the story of a boy in Mississippi coming out to his father.
It was partly inspired by criticism that Smith didn't use gender-specific pronouns like "he" and "him" on his first album.
Key lyric: "Don't you try and tell me that God doesn't care for us / It is him I love, it is him I love."
Sam says: "I had an amazing coming out experience and I forgot, maybe, how tough it is for some people.
"But after the first album I realised I have a responsibility as a gay pop artist.
It's important for me to be a voice and hopefully inspire some young children that are living in the outskirts and have no way in.
"I'm a little bit nervous, I'm not going to lie, about singing Him in certain parts of America.
But on the other hand, I can't wait.
I want to sing Him in Mississippi more than anything."
Baby, You Make Me Crazy Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The Dap Kings have worked with Sharon Jones, Amy Winehouse and Mark Ronson Backed by Amy Winehouse's old band, The Dap Kings, Sam sings about heading out on the town to shake his ex "out of my system".
Key lyric: "I'm gonna have to call my sisters / Be around the ones who listen / Anything to drown you out tonight."
Sam says: "That's about the day I got dumped.
I was sitting with my best friend and my sisters in the garden on the day it happened.
He dumped me over the phone and I remember walking back into the house and saying, 'It's over'.
"And they just said to me: 'Let's forget about it for one night.
Let's go out and get absolutely blotto drunk and dance and try to forget about it all for one night - then tomorrow we can wake up and deal with it."
The Thrill of It All Image caption The star surprised two fans by performing at their wedding.
Footage will be shown on the BBC One Sam Smith special.
One of the best vocal performances on the album, the title track is a simple piano-and-strings ballad that finds Smith musing on the perils of fame.
Key lyric: "I regret that I told the world / That you were with me."
Sam says: "I was in a relationship when I released In The Lonely Hour and I posted pictures of us on Instagram.
I very quickly learned a lesson: I don't want to be famous in that way.
I just felt embarrassed.
"When the relationship ended, I was like, 'Wow, I really messed that up by putting pressure on it when I shouldn't have'.
"I'm in a relationship now [with 13 Reasons Why star Brandon Flynn] and people taking pictures and talking about [us] scares me.
But it's important to not avoid speaking about it because it adds more drama.
It gives people a reason to dig."
One Last Song Image copyright PA Image caption The singer tours the UK next March and April The whole of In The Lonely Hour was about a married man who Smith had an unrequited crush on.
He's left that far behind - but not before writing one final tribute.
Key lyric: "I know you don't want to talk to me, so this is what I will do / Maybe you're listening, so here's one last song for you."
Sam says: "Towards the end of the writing process, he started to slip back into my mind.
But the song wasn't about longing for him - I was just remembering my relationships and summing up the similarities between him and the guy who this record's about.
"I think when you sing about love, you're singing about every love you've ever had.
Not just always about one person.
"So this is just like a final love song to him.
He's done so much for me, and he's such an amazing person.
I miss him."
Sam Smith's album is out now.
His TV special, Sam Smith at the BBC, will be broadcast on Thursday at 20:00 GMT on BBC One.
The documentary On The Record: Sam Smith is available on Apple Music.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Ken Howard/Metropolitan Opera Image caption Audrey Luna (C) on stage in The Exterminating Angel at New York's Metropolitan Opera Crackling slightly down a transatlantic phone line, Audrey Luna has a pleasant, normal speaking voice.
But she's only able to use it for 10 minutes.
Come Friday evening, these same vocal cords will unleash a note so dizzyingly high, so astoundingly rare, that archivists say New York's Metropolitan Opera has never heard it in 140 years - at least, not since her last performance.
And like a world-class athlete on game day, she needs to conserve her strength.
Ms Luna is a coloratura soprano - the voice type capable of the highest notes - and specialises in thrilling, trilling vocal runs that pour out strongly even at their peaks.
Few people alive have the potential to reach the note now winning her headlines - the A above high C. To put that in context, Christmas choristers singing the descant line of Hark!
The Herald Angels Sing will usually hit a high A - some with difficulty.
Ms Luna's note is a full octave - or eight notes - higher than that.
The opera showcasing this rarity is Thomas Ads's The Exterminating Angel, a savage, surrealist piece based on the 1962 Luis Buuel film of the same name.
Ms Luna plays Leticia, an opera diva who joins a well-off couple for a glittering dinner party.
Macabre twists unfold as the partygoers find they have entered a strange vortex - and are trapped in the house when the evening ends.
Image copyright Ken Howard/Metropolitan Opera Image caption Things get gory when the dinner guests realise they can't leave the house It's a supernatural note for a supernatural story - and the Oregon native is hitting it twice a night.
So, how does she do it?
Beyond the usual advice for better singing technique - things like watching your posture, not smoking, and avoiding air conditioning that can dry out the throat - freakish genetics must play a part, I suggest.
"I am not a scientist!"
laughs the singer, "but it's something I've been training for years...
I've always kind of wondered what the limits are to my voice, and it wasn't until I met Tom Ads and I saw his score for The Tempest [in which she played the sprite Ariel in 2012] that I saw notes that I had never sung before.
"And when I was asked to actually do the role, I was like, 'Is that something I can do, time and time again?'
I found it was easy - it came easily to me.
Then, I guess he had to just write one step higher for this!
He showed me on paper, saying, 'this is the approach you would take'.
I said, 'what do you mean, approach?!
There is no approach - it's just bang, out, sing the A!"
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Audrey Luna sings her showpiece high note What does she think about when she's trying to hit that highest note?
"Well, I'm off-stage because it is an off-stage laugh... and there's a lot of people around me.
It's kind of claustrophobic backstage.
All the crew is there, all the singers are there because we're just about to make our first entrance.
It feels like psychologically everyone's there to do their job... so it kind of takes the pressure off me, in a way.
Everything goes really quickly at that moment."
Nature and nurture?
The singer was just 10 when she started voice lessons.
"I stopped violin, piano, flute, dance - I stopped all of it!"
she recalls.
"But that's the one thing I held on to, because I loved it."
"Queen of the Night was something I was singing far too young.
I was singing it behind my voice teacher's back, at the time - she didn't know I was doing it."
The famous aria from Mozart's Magic Flute, where the Queen of the Night throws a vocally spectacular temper tantrum, is out of range for almost all sopranos as it repeatedly runs up to an F, two notes below Ms Luna's latest showpiece.
Nowadays, she is careful to protect her voice.
But if I'd been hoping to hear the secrets of her brilliance, they sound disappointingly like standard self-care.
On off-days, she goes on long walks or does some yoga.
"Rest is key," she advises.
"Seriously - it sounds silly, but sleep is the most important thing, I think, for an opera singer.
And not talking too much in-between show days.
"For me in this role, it's like maxing out on the weights.
If you go to the gym and lift the very most you possibly can or something - that's what singing this role is like.
It's unlike any role I've ever seen - probably that's ever been written.
It really does stretch the voice to its very limits."
Any diet rules?
A few, she says.
"The couple of hours before a show I'm not going to have any coffee, I'm going to stick to water.
I like my ginger tea!"
New York's Metropolitan Opera is beyond the reach of many, both financially and geographically.
A cinema trip may not be, though - and the Met's Live in HD series will be beaming the 18 November performance of The Exterminating Angel live into movie theatres around the world.
You can find your nearest one here.
Spoilers: She thinks she's got a higher note...
Despite the plaudits pouring in for her current vocal feat, Ms Luna is pretty sure she can go higher.
"I've sung a C above C - a couple of notes higher than the A, just in a practice room..." Now she just needs an opera to put it in.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Left-right: Hugh Bonneville, Paddington, Hugh Grant If proof were needed that good friendships withstand the passage of time, look no further than actors Hugh Grant and Hugh Bonneville.
Almost 20 years after they starred together in Notting Hill, the two Hughs have reunited for the new Paddington movie - and both say the mutual affection hasn't waned.
"When I first saw Bonneville, I threw him to the floor and tried to kiss him, which is what we used to do," says Grant, who plays the film's villain (Nicole Kidman's role in the first film), washed-up actor Phoenix Buchanan.
"But he's so old now, he put his back out.
It cost us a couple of days filming."
Given that Grant, 57, is four years Bonneville's senior, there's a whiff of a wind-up in the air.
It's compounded by this curveball anecdote: "And he still does embroidery between takes.
"It's charming.
But he makes God-awful things.
No idea what they're for."
Image copyright Studiocanal Image caption Hugh Grant's narcissistic Phoenix Buchanan turns out to be a master of disguise Still, friendship and acceptance are of course central to Michael Bond's Paddington stories - and director Paul King's films.
At the heart of every tale, our ursine Peruvian hero struggles to navigate his way through a confusing world seemingly designed to trip him up.
But he persists in seeing the best in everything and everyone.
Bond died at 91 earlier this year on the last day of filming - an event Bonneville describes as "very sad and very sudden".
"It was very touching for us and caused a bit of reflection," says the actor, who returns as Mr Brown, head of Paddington's surrogate family.
"We doubled our thoughts, efforts and wishes that this second film would do him justice."
Image copyright Studiocanal Image caption Paddington proves a dab hand tries to master the art of window cleaning He adds that Bond's wife Sue and daughter Karen have given the final cut their blessing.
This follow-up to King's 2014 hit is as charming, funny and inventive as before - perhaps even more so.
Paddington is on a mission.
He desperately wants a very special and expensive pop-up book of London for his beloved Aunt Lucy's 100th birthday.
Image copyright Studiocanal Image caption Hugh Bonneville's family man Mr Brown is having a mid-life crisis He takes to odd-jobbing to earn the pennies.
Hairdressing is a disaster.
Window cleaning proves ultimately to be a better bet.
But all falls apart when the book is stolen - by the dastardly cash-strapped Phoenix.
Poor Paddington ends up in the frame and serving 10 years behind bars.
In this movie we see more of the Browns' neighbours, played by some of the best British acting talent - including Joanna Lumley, Richard Ayoade, Dame Eileen Atkins, Jessica Hynes and Tom Conti.
"Everyone pops up," says Bonneville.
"I think Paul King went through his entire address book and they all wanted to join us."
Image copyright Studiocanal Image caption Joanna Lumley is one of a number of well-known actors to make an appearance But as one of the film's leads, newcomer Grant does more than just pop in and (with apologies to Paddington) he pretty much steals the show.
Phoenix is a glorious send-up of the stereotypical self-obsessed actor (with a touch of Grant's self-mocking thrown in).
Once famous and rich.
Now over-the-hill and broke, yet hell-bent on making a comeback.
(Get the tongue-in-cheek name.)
"I rejoiced in lampooning the crazy psychosis of every actor," says Grant.
"The incredible narcissism, self-love and insecurity.
Deep down, that's all acting is.
"I've always been equivocal about acting to say the least and I still am.
It's torture really.
The insecurity is unbearable.
The fear of failing.
"Even Ben Whishaw [who voices Paddington] asked which part of the job I enjoyed.
I said, 'None of it really,' and he said, 'No, nor me!'"
Image copyright Studiocanal Image caption Phoenix Buchanan goes to great lengths to evade detection But there is huge fun to be had by both Grant and the audience as Phoenix adopts a range of zany disguises.
And where Bonneville dressed up as a cleaning lady in Paddington 1, it's Grant's turn to take on the female clothes - as a nun.
And, boy, did Grant enjoy it - or is that a wind-up bell we hear again?
"Loved it - I used to do a lot at my all-boys school where I took the girl parts in plays," says Grant.
"I was a late developer, with the least beard, quite pretty and with the right kind of eyelashes.
"I was particularly good as Brigitta Von Trapp in The Sound of Music."
Grant's career seems to be undergoing a bit of renaissance (Phoenix again, but this time true).
After the oft-berated rom-coms, then a range of minor roles, it was 2016's Florence Foster Jenkins that marked a turnaround.
Now, he's midway through filming the TV drama A Very British Scandal, in which he plays disgraced 1970s politician Jeremy Thorpe.
Whishaw, incidentally, plays Norman Scott, the ex-lover Thorpe was accused of conspiring to murder.
Thorpe was later tried and acquitted.
The wider range of roles is one of the few benefits of age, says Grant.
Image copyright Studiocanal Image caption Can we all learn a little from Paddington?
"You stop being offered the romantic leads.
They're difficult to do without being dull or naff.
So when you start getting offered roles that are more nuanced and with darker notes and more colour, it's a relief."
Age is an issue for Bonneville too.
Onscreen, Mr Brown is going through a mid-life crisis.
Off-screen, Bonneville says he knows how his character feels.
"He believes his life is falling apart, he's missed out on a promotion, he's unfit and going grey and he turns to an extreme form of yoga as a remedy.
"I can certainly relate to some of that.
Not the yoga, but the rest - tick, tick, tick!"
Not career angst, surely.
After six years of Downton Abbey, three years of sitcoms W1A and Rev and films including the recent Breathe, Bonneville is never far from the public's psyche.
It's something the actor knows all too well.
"I've deliberately had a very quiet year as I was getting sick of seeing myself around," says Bonneville.
"Downton was wonderful but we were all aware of being in everyone's faces so it's nice just to be quiet."
The much-rumoured Downton movie is laughed off by Bonneville.
"I love all the people involved but the bottom line is that we are all in different corners of the world.
It would be a miracle to pull everyone together several years on."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Author Michael Bond was consulted throughout the making of the film Like Grant, Bonneville is set to star in a biopic - a movie about the children's author Roald Dahl.
As they leave Paddington behind, have the two actors learned anything from our furry friend?
"We've all been vulnerable like he has and wanting to fit in," says Bonneville.
"But I like his eternal optimism.
Life's too short to be miserable."
Meanwhile Grant adds: "Well, Paddington's not wrong.
His default position is to see the best in people and mine is to see the worst.
"So he's right and I'm wrong.
Maybe my new motto in life should be, 'What would Paddington do?'"
One for all of us to chew over with our marmalade sandwiches.
Paddington 2 is out in the UK on Friday 10 November.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright British Vogue Image caption Adwoa Aboah is known for promoting diversity and is a feminist activist British Vogue's new editor Edward Enninful has been praised for his first cover of the magazine.
The December issue, featuring model Adwoa Aboah, has a retro feel to it and represents a new era for the publication.
Zayn Malik, Sadiq Khan, Millie Bobby Brown, Cara Delevingne, Zadie Smith, and Skepta all feature in the issue.
The cover was revealed on Tuesday night and has been commended by the fashion and celebrity world.
It comes as Teen Vogue announces they will be enlisting the help of Hillary Clinton to guest-edit an edition of the US magazine, which has just announced it's going online-only, Cheryl posted a picture of the magazine on Instagram and said, "So beautiful Adwoa Aboah!
Congratulations Edward Enninful on your stunning first British Vogue Cover."
(She also added the hashtag #newera.)
Image copyright British Vogue Image caption The new issue is going for a retro vibe Naomi Campbell, who was recently announced as a contributing editor for the magazine, also offered her thoughts on social media.
She said that it was "an iconic day - one we must all remember as a change in the most positive way".
Supermodel Iman Abdulmajid congratulated Enninful on his appointment by Vogue, saying "let your reign begin".
The Guardian published a piece, saying it signalled "the new editor's mission to make political statements, not just fashion ones".
"The coverlines make no mention of trends, It bags or new mascaras.
Instead there is a list of power players in politics and the arts."
For Enninful, this has always been the objective.
Speaking to the BBC, he said: "It is about diversity - showing different women, different body shapes, different races, different classes [and] tackling gender.
"I wanted to create a magazine that was open and friendly; a bit like a shop you are not scared to walk into."
Image copyright British Vogue Image caption The December 2017 edition features Adwoa Aboah on the front cover The Telegraph also praised the new Vogue editor for its choice of Adwoa Aboah, instead of a more traditional cover star like Kate Moss or Cara Delevingne, They called Aboah's inclusion a "celebration of diversity" and praised the cover shoot for its nod to her Ghanaian heritage.
Aboah is nominated for Model of the Year at this year's Fashion Awards but is also a feminist activist known for promoting rights of women in the modelling industry.
Image copyright PA Image caption Edward Enninful started his new job as editor in August and hired Naomi Campbell as a contributor She runs the website Gurls Talk, which encourages young women to discuss issues surrounding mental health and body image.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
