A model of Bombardier C Series aeroplane is seen in the Bombardier offices in Belfast, Northern Ireland September 26, 2017.
REUTERS/Clodagh Kilcoyne

BELFAST/LONDON (Reuters) - Britain told U.S. planemaker Boeing on Wednesday that it could lose out on British defense contracts because of its dispute with Canadian rival Bombardier which has put 4,200 jobs at risk in Northern Ireland.
The U.S. Department of Commerce on Tuesday imposed a 220-percent duty on Bombardiers (BBDb.TO) CSeries jets, whose wings are made at a plant in Belfast, following a complaint by Boeing (BA.N) which accuses Canada of unfairly subsidizing Bombardier.
The ruling is a political headache for Britains minority Conservative government, which relies on support from a Northern Irish party to stay in power.
It also undermines the governments assurances to Britons that free trade and Londons close ties with Washington will be pillars of Britains prosperity and global influence after it leaves the European Union in 2019.
This is not the behavior we expect from Boeing and it could indeed jeopardize our future relationship with them, British Defence Secretary Michael Fallon told reporters in Belfast.
Boeing has significant defense contracts with us and still expects to win further contracts.
Boeing wants and we want a long-term partnership but that has to be two-way.
Bombardier is the largest manufacturing employer in Northern Ireland, which is the poorest of the United Kingdoms four parts and is mired in political difficulties after emerging from decades of armed sectarian conflict.
Bitterly disappointed by initial Bombardier ruling, said British Prime Minister Theresa May, who had personally asked U.S. President Donald Trump to help resolve the dispute.
The government will continue to work with the company to protect vital jobs for Northern Ireland, she said on Twitter.
Boeing said in a statement it was committed to the UK, but gave no indication that it might change tack in the dispute.
We have heard and understand the concerns from the Prime Minister and the Government about Bombardier workers in Northern Ireland, the statement said.
Boeing said that since 2011 it had tripled its spending in the United Kingdom to 2.1 billion pounds ($2.8 billion) in 2016, while the firm and its suppliers accounted for more than 18,700 UK jobs.
DOES NOT BODE WELL FOR BREXIT

The row has come at a bad time for May, who was severely weakened by her partys poor showing in an election in June and who has been struggling to contain infighting within her top team over Brexit.
Manufacturing Northern Ireland, an industry group, said the row was an ominous sign of the difficulties Britain could face after leaving the EU.
What we could be witnessing is the fundamental difference between being a fully-fledged member of an internal market and a junior partner in a free trade agreement, it said.
This does not bode well for the UKs plan to be a leader in global free trade nor indeed ambitions of a free trade agreement with the EU which cannot match the benefit we currently enjoy as part of the EUs Single Market.
At the Bombardier plant in Belfast, workers were nervous about what impact the dispute could have on their livelihoods.
Nobody knows how it will end up, said aircraft fitter George Burnside, 56, who has worked for Bombardier for 27 years.
I am concerned.
I was shocked at the size of the tariff.
The U.S. penalty will only take effect if the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) rules in Boeings favor.
A final decision is expected early in 2018.
British Business Secretary Greg Clark said he was confident the initial Department of Commerce ruling would be overturned, arguing that Bombardiers CSeries jets did not compete with Boeing.
But Boeing conceded no ground, accusing Bombardier of illegally dumping its products in the U.S. single-aisle airplane market out of desperation.
Any claimed economic threat to Bombardier is due to the weakness of its product in the marketplace, said Boeing.
SABRE-RATTLING

Arlene Foster, leader of the DUP, the Northern Irish party that is propping up Mays minority government, signaled she would put pressure on May to act.
Everyone realizes how important Bombardier is to Northern Ireland and we will use our influence with our government to make sure that continues, she told Sky News.
However, Londons options in fighting Bombardiers corner may be limited because of the importance of Boeing to its defense industry.
Boeing says the United Kingdom is its third largest supply base after the United States and Japan.
It has recently begun constructing its first European parts manufacturing site in Sheffield, northern England.
Britain recently ordered the Boeing P-8 maritime surveillance plane and a new fleet of Apache attack helicopters made by the U.S. giant.
Its armed forces have deployed Chinook helicopters, the C-17 transport plane and the E-3 Sentry airborne early warning and command post.
British defense analyst Howard Wheeldon said it was unlikely that Britain would pursue any reprisals against Boeing.
I think there is a lot of saber-rattling, but in practical terms it is not on, he said when asked whether Britain could cancel or reduce Boeing defense orders.
They can play politics, but cant actually walk away from what they need and have committed to buying from Boeing.
FILE PHOTO: House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) speaks at a news conference with House Republican leaders after a closed conference meeting on Capitol Hill in Washington, U.S., September 13, 2017.
REUTERS/Yuri Gripas

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Republicans in the U.S. Congress and the White House called for slashing tax rates on businesses and the wealthy on Wednesday, as part of a new tax plan that offers few details about how to pay for tax cuts without expanding the federal deficit.
Hammered out over months of high-level talks among Trump aides and top Republicans in Congress, the plan proposes: a 20 percent corporate income tax rate; a new 25 percent tax rate for pass-through businesses including partnerships; and a reduced 35 percent top income tax rate for individual Americans, according to a framework seen by Reuters.
Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in New York, U.S., September 27, 2017.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid

(Reuters) - U.S. stocks pared gains on Wednesday after President Donald Trumps administration called for slashing tax rates but offered few details about how to pay for tax cuts without expanding the federal deficit.
The plan proposed a 20 percent corporate income tax rate, a new 25 percent tax rate for pass-through businesses including partnerships and a reduced 35 percent top income tax rate for individual Americans, according to a framework seen by Reuters.
If passed, the plan would be Trumps first significant legislative win since taking office in January.
Unveiling the plan is one thing, and getting it passed is another, said Victor Jones, director of trading at TD Ameritrade.
While I think there is optimism, time will tell us how much of an impact that will have on the market ... Investors are going to look for whether or not this plan will get any bipartisan support or at least full support of the Republican party.
Six of the 11 major S&P indexes were higher, led by a 1.17 percent gain in the financial index .SPSY.
Shares of big banks, including Bank of America (BAC.N) and Goldman Sachs (GS.N), were up about 2 percent on rising bets of a third interest rate hike this year following Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellens comments on Tuesday.
Yellen said it would be imprudent to keep rates on hold until U.S. inflation hit the 2 percent target.
Traders now see an 81.4 percent chance of a December rate hike, compared with 71.4 percent a week ago, according to CME Groups FedWatch tool.
At 10:41 a.m.
ET (1441 GMT), the Dow Jones Industrial Average .DJI was up 14.21 points, or 0.06 percent, at 22,298.53, the S&P 500 .SPX was up 2.58 points, or 0.10 percent, at 2,499.42 and the Nasdaq Composite .IXIC was up 31.95 points, or 0.5 percent, at 6,412.11.
A 0.78 percent rise in Apples (AAPL.O) shares was the biggest boost to the S&P and the Nasdaq, while Goldman Sachs propped up the Dow.
Nike (NKE.N) slipped about 3.7 percent and was the biggest drag on the Dow, after the company posted its slowest quarterly sales growth in nearly seven years and said it expected a further drop in revenue from North America.
Micron Technology (MU.O) rose 8 percent after the company reported a better-than-expected profit and forecast results above estimates.
Data from Commerce Department showed new orders for key U.S.-made capital goods increased more than expected in August and shipments maintained their upward trend, pointing to underlying strength in the economy.
Declining issues outnumbered advancers on the NYSE by 1,456 to 1,271.
On the Nasdaq, 1,757 issues rose and 896 fell.
Technicians build LEAP engines for jetliners at a new, highly automated General Electric (GE) factory in Lafayette, Indiana, U.S. on March 29, 2017.
REUTERS/Alwyn Scott

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - New orders for U.S.-made capital goods increased more than expected in August and shipments maintained their upward trend, pointing to underlying strength in the economy despite an anticipated drag on growth from Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
The Commerce Department said on Wednesday non-defense capital goods orders excluding aircraft, a closely watched proxy for business spending plans, rose 0.9 percent last month after an upwardly revised 1.1 percent gain in July.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast orders of these so-called core capital goods increasing 0.3 percent last month following a previously reported 1.0 percent jump in July.
Core capital goods orders surged 3.3 percent year-on-year.
Shipments of core capital goods rose 0.7 percent after advancing 1.1 percent in July.
Core capital goods shipments are used to calculate equipment spending in the governments gross domestic product measurement.
The Commerce Department said it was unable to isolate the effects of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma on the data as the survey is designed to estimate the month-to-month change in manufacturing activity at the national level and not at specific geographic areas.
Harvey, which devastated parts of Texas, has hurt August retail sales, industrial production, homebuilding and home sales.
Irma, which struck Florida early this month, is expected to further hold down housing activity.
As a result, the storms are expected to cut into third-quarter economic growth.
Third-quarter GDP growth estimates are below a 2.5 percent annualized rate.
The economy grew at a 3.0 percent pace in the second quarter.
The dollar jumped to a more than one-month high against a basket of currencies on the data, while prices for U.S. Treasuries fell.
U.S. stock index futures were trading higher.
Business investment has been buoyed by the energy sector, where oil and gas drilling has rebounded after declining in the wake of a collapse in crude oil prices.
Spending could get a further boost from an anticipated tax cut next year.
President Donald Trump and top Republicans in Congress are expected to release a framework on Wednesday targeting tax cuts for businesses.
Trump said on Tuesday that as part of the tax code overhaul, he wanted to lower the corporate tax rate and bring back trillions of dollars invested overseas.
Business spending on equipment added almost half-a-percentage point to GDP in the third quarter, the most in nearly two years.
Strong business investment is helping to support manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of the U.S. economy.
Last month, orders for machinery rose 0.3 percent after being unchanged in July.
There were also increases in orders for primary metals, computers and electronic products, and transportation equipment.
Overall orders for durable goods, items ranging from toasters to aircraft meant to last three years or more, surged 1.7 percent last month as bookings for transportation equipment jumped 4.9 percent.
Durable goods orders fell 6.8 percent in July.
Boeing (BA.N) reported on its website that it received 33 aircraft orders in August, sharply up from 22 in the prior month.
Orders for motor vehicles and parts rose 1.5 percent inAugust after declining 2.1 percent in July.
FILE PHOTO: Brian Moynihan, Chairman of the Board and CEO of Bank of America Corporation attends the World Economic Forum (WEF) annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland January 20, 2017.
REUTERS/Ruben Sprich

(Reuters) - Bank of America Corp (BAC.N) will continue to favor share buybacks over a dividend increase to avoid putting itself in a position where it may have to reduce the dividend in the future, Chief Executive Brian Moynihan said at a conference in London on Wednesday.
Our stocks a good buy and well continue to buy it until the cows come home, he said.
While not explicitly stated in any rule, regulators have made it clear to banks that their dividend payout should not exceed 30 percent of earnings.
Bank of America expects to return $14.2 billion to shareholders in 2017, with the majority of that coming via share buybacks, according to a presentation earlier this month by Chief Financial Officer Paul Donofrio.
That compares to $6.6 billion in 2016.
Bank of America shares were up 2.2 percent in early trading on Wednesday.
Paul Gregoire, an Agronomic Research Specialist with Monsanto, examines corn on Monsanto's research farm near Carman, Manitoba, Canada August 3, 2017.
REUTERS/Zachary Prong

CARMAN, Manitoba (Reuters) - On Canadas fertile Prairies, dominated by the yellows and golds of canola and wheat, summers are too short to grow corn on a major scale.
But Monsanto Co (MON.N) is working to develop what it hopes will be North Americas fastest-maturing corn, allowing farmers to grow more in Western Canada and other inhospitable climates, such as Ukraine.
The seed and chemical giant projects that western Canadian corn plantings could multiply 20 times to 10 million acres by 2025 - adding some 1.1 billion bushels, or nearly 3 percent to current global production.
The question, amid historically high supplies and low grain prices, is whether the world really needs more corn.
A global grains glut is now in its fourth year, with supplies bloated by favorable weather, increasingly high-tech farm practices and tougher plant breeds.
The bin-busting harvests of cheap corn, wheat and soybeans are undermining the business models of the worlds largest agriculture firms and the farmers who use their products and services.
Some analysts say the firms have effectively innovated their way into a stubbornly oversupplied market.
Infographic ID: '2y4zIGw'

Never has the world produced so much more food than can be consumed in one season.
World ending stocks of total grains - the leftover supplies before a new harvest - have climbed for four straight years and are poised to reach a record 638 million tonnes in 2016/17, according to USDA data.
Farmers and agriculture firms could once count on periodic bouts of crop-destroying weather to tame gluts and drive up prices.
But genetically modified crops that repel plant-chewing insects, withstand lethal chemicals and mature faster have made the trend toward oversupply more resistant to traditional boom-and-bust agrarian cycles, experts say.
Another key factor: China - the worlds second-biggest corn grower - adopted stockpiling policies a decade ago when crop supplies ran thin, resulting in greater production than the world needs.
I think the norm is where we are now, said Bryan Agbabian, director of agriculture equities at Allianz Global Investors.
Allianz investors seem to agree: The value of two agriculture equity funds that Agbabian manages fell to $300 million this year from $800 million in 2011 as crop prices slid, he said.
Abundant supplies have helped lower food prices across the world, but the benefit to consumers and impoverished nations is muted by several factors, including problems with corruption and distribution of food in developing regions, said Sylvain Charlebois, professor of food distribution and policy at Canadas Dalhousie University.
The bumper harvests may actually harm poor communities more than they benefit their residents in food savings because lower prices depress farm incomes in the same areas, said John Baffes, a senior economist at the World Bank.
Even as farmers reap bountiful harvests, U.S. net farm incomes this year will total $63.4 billion - about half of their earnings in 2013, according to a U.S. Department of Agriculture forecast.
Lower incomes mean farmers cannot spend as much on seed, fertilizer and machinery, extending their pain to firms across the agriculture sector.
Potash Corp of Saskatchewan (POT.TO), the worlds biggest fertilizer company by capacity, closed its newest potash mine last year, eliminating more than 400 jobs, and has seen its U.S.-listed shares fall by nearly half since the beginning of 2015.
The drop erased $14 billion in value, and left Potash seeking to merge with rival Agrium Inc (AGU.TO).
With profits under pressure, seed and chemical companies are scrambling to consolidate.
Monsantos annual profit in 2016 was its smallest in six years.
It agreed last year to combine with Bayer AG (BAYGn.DE), which would create the worlds largest integrated pesticide and seed company if the deal closes next year.
Grain handler Bunge Ltd (BG.N) said this summer it would cut costs, and left the door open to selling itself after posting a 34 percent drop in quarterly earnings.
Bunge CEO Soren Schroder sought to reassure investors in May by saying all that was needed to trim supplies was one bad stretch of weather in the U.S. Midwest.
But the glut pervades many major farming regions, making it unlikely that drought or floods in one region could wipe out the mounting global surplus.
Even with dry conditions in North America, Europe and Australia, the U.S. Department of Agriculture forecasts that this year will bring the second-biggest global corn, wheat and soybean harvests ever.
Bunges Schroder made his comment about bad weather less than three weeks before confirming an informal merger approach from commodities giant Glencore Plc (GLEN.L).
When prices tanked, farmers were no longer willing to pay more for seed and chemicals, said Jonas Oxgaard, analyst at investment management firm Bernstein.
The mergers are absolutely driven by oversupply because their growth is gone.
Monsanto spokeswoman Trish Jordan said the company believes demand growth still justifies corn expansion, and she disputed the notion that crop science advances are backfiring on agricultural technology firms.
Monsanto rival DowDuPont Inc (DWDP.N) is making the same bet and currently sells the shortest-season field corn in North America, maturing in 70 days, spokesman Ali Aziz said.
Success in the lab and the field, however, has contributed to oversupply and may continue to sustain it, said Oxgaard, the Bernstein analyst.
"It's somewhat the seed companies' fault - they keep breeding better and better seeds every year," he said.
Infographic ID: '2y2Ushz'

DARWIN, SEX AND CORN

Charles Darwin helped plant the seeds of the grain glut.
The biologist and evolution theorist showed in the late 1800s that cross-fertilization of plants - in which sex cells are fused between crop varieties of the same species - creates a more vigorous breed than those that are self-fertilized.
His work and others influenced successive generations of crop scientists and led to the development of hybrid corn, said Stephen Moose, a professor specializing in crop genetics at University of Illinois.
U.S. farmers started planting the first significant acres of hybrid corn in the 1930s, and by 1950 it made up nearly all the corn seeded in the United States.
Yields exploded.
Farmers who reaped 20.5 bushels of corn per acre in 1930 harvested an average of 38.2 bushels in 1950, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Further hybrid breeding breakthroughs generated corn with leaves that grow more erect, allowing farmers to sow it more densely without starving plants of sunlight.
Yields first topped 100 bushels per acre in 1978.
After conventional breeding breakthroughs became harder to find, corn gained new vigor through the 1990s with genetic modification.
In 1996, U.S. regulators approved corn that was genetically engineered to produce bug-killing proteins, accomplished by inserting a bacterium hostile to the corn borer insect into the plant genome.
Before the end of the 1990s, corn able to resist weed-killing chemical glufosinate or Monsantos glyphosate hit the market.
Those modified varieties and others that followed proved pivotal in generating the abundant corn crops that have since become commonplace, Moose said.
In the seed industry, it stimulated a whole other round of investment, Moose said.
In the 20 years since GMO corn reached U.S. farms, yields jumped another 37 percent to a record 174.6 bushels per acre last year.
Some experts believe the expansion of corn yields may soon hit a ceiling.
The crop may be nearing the natural limit of its production potential, and crop yields will likely plateau in the next decade, based on how plants convert light to food and their ability to recover from heat, said Ken Cassman, agronomy professor at University of Nebraska-Lincoln.
Technology has also provided better defenses against pests.
Connor Murray, a research associate with Monsanto, examines a corn tassel on Monsanto's research farm near Carman, Manitoba, Canada August 3, 2017.
REUTERS/Zachary Prong

Syngenta AGs (SYNN.S) Viptera and Duracade traits, used to control worms and beetles, launched in 2010 and 2013.
SmartStax corn seed, introduced by Monsanto and Dow in 2009, brought twin benefits of insect protection and herbicide tolerance, said Paul Bertels, vice-president of production and sustainability at U.S.-based National Corn Growers Association.
The breakthroughs in seed and pesticide technologies have not come without problems.
Monsanto is now embroiled in a controversy over dicamba, a big-selling chemical designed to kill weeds that harm Monsantos genetically modified crops.
Many U.S. farmers say dicamba has drifted from its intended fields, damaging plants that are not resistant to the chemical.
Monsanto believes the main causes of drifting are errors by farmers and applicators in deploying the herbicide, company spokeswoman Charla Lord said.
GROWING CORN IN ALASKA

As it grew stronger, corn grew faster.
Corn that required 120 days to mature in the U.S. Corn Belt during the 1960s now needs only 105 to 115 days.
Farmers in northern North Dakota plant and harvest corn in 80 days, and have doubled the states production in five years.
Fast corn is now stirring even the imaginations of researchers in the far north.
University of Alaska Fairbanks horticulture professor Meriam Karlsson grew hundreds of corn plants in the Arctic state in 2015.
The plants, germinated in a greenhouse before they were transplanted outside, grew from a short-season garden corn variety that matured in less than 60 days.
Corn rose only four to five feet, allowing plants to spend maximum energy on growing ears, rather than leaves and stalks.
Karlsson had expected few corn plants to survive in Fairbanks - less than 120 miles (190 kilometers) from the Arctic Circle.
Its much more adaptable than I expected, she said.
Amazing what breeding can do.
It was kind of exciting that you could do it.
The lure of technology comes down to money for farmers.
Even with Chicago corn futures down more than 50 percent from their 2012 record high, the high-yielding crop offers one of the strongest returns to Canadian farmers, generating profits per acre four times that of canola, based on average prices and costs, said National Bank analyst Greg Colman.
As corn spreads across the Canadian Prairies, those robust yields are winning farmers over, said Dan Wright, Monsanto Canadas lead for corn and soybeans.
Once you harvest corn at 140 or 180 bushels, its something you want to do again, he said.
Slideshow (6 Images)

While corn compares nicely to some crops, it offers U.S. farmers marginal returns at current prices, Bernsteins Oxgaard said.
Switching to other crops is not easy in areas like the U.S. Midwest, where farmers traditionally swing between corn and soybeans, and have invested in costly equipment to grow them.
GLUT TRACES ROOTS TO SHORTAGE

The problems of plenty were on nobodys mind less than a decade ago.
In 2008, a dramatic food price run-up stirred riots from Haiti to Egypt.
Four years later, the U.S. Midwest, the engine of the global corn and soybean growing machine, suffered its worst drought in decades, opening gaping cracks in the soil and withering crops.
Chicago corn and soybean futures Cv1 Sv1 hit record highs as U.S. production fell to multi-year lows.
But high prices proved the cure for high prices.
Farmers in traditionally less productive corn-growing countries such as Russia, Argentina and Brazil expanded corn output to seize bigger profits.
U.S. farming quickly rebounded, reaping record corn harvests in three of the next four years.
New corn varieties have made global production more balanced than ever, with 12 countries producing at least 10 million tonnes of corn annually, up from 10 before the drought.
Even if U.S. or Brazilian corn crops suffered major weather damage, the world would still have the expanding Black Sea corn region to tap, not to mention Chinas enormous supplies, said Bertels, of the U.S. corn growers association.
Chinas stockpiling policies, enacted in 2007 when corn supplies were tight, also stimulated oversupply.
Aiming for self-sufficiency in grains, Beijing bought virtually the entire domestic crop each year and paid farmers as much as 60 percent more than global prices.
The program stuffed Chinese warehouses with some 250 million tonnes of corn by the time Beijing scrapped it last year.
China is now boosting incentives for farmers to switch to soybeans from corn.
The worlds corn is mainly in China, said Li Qiang, chief consultant at Shanghai JC Intelligence Co Ltd.
He said it will take three to four years for stocks to reach a normal level of around 40-50 million tonnes.
The Black Sea region, made up of Russia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan, has become a disruptive force with rapidly expanding exports.
Moscow aims to drive grain production to 150 million tonnes by 2030 from 117 million in 2016 after increasing storage and export capacity in ports in the last couple of years.
Glut conditions are expected to ease modestly this year, amid dry conditions in China and the United States, but supplies are still so large that prices remain weak.
OVERSUPPLY OF EVERYTHING

In northern North Dakota, an expanding frontier for corn and soybeans, Paul Thomas started dabbling in both crops about a decade ago on his farm near Minot, seeking higher returns than wheat.
Both are now among his biggest crops, including short-season Monsanto corn varieties that have only been available for a couple of years.
Profits may be tougher for Thomas to eke out this year due to dry weather and soft prices, but he shrugs off the struggle.
Were very capable of producing a large amount of bushels given an economic incentive, he said.
If we end up over-producing, then we shift to one thats more in need.
Thats just the way agriculture works.
Thomas acknowledged, however, that the traditional dynamic may be changing in this current glut.
I dont know any single crop that isnt in oversupply, he said.
Seeding equipment is becoming more precise, and increasingly cost-conscious farmers are applying fertilizer and chemicals more intelligently, said Al Mussell, head of research at Canadian think tank Agri-Food Economic Systems.
Monsanto projects that corn will become by the mid-2020s one of the biggest crops produced in Canada, which is an agriculture-exporting powerhouse in canola, wheat, oats and pork.
Soybeans are also spreading across Canada.
Farmers seeded a record high 7.3 million acres in 2017, up 75 percent in five years.
On Monsantos research farm in Carman, Manitoba, the next target is marketing a corn variety that matures in 70 days within the next two years.
After that: an even quicker plant to snatch DowDuPonts claim to North Americas fastest corn.
It is ambitious but realistic, said Kelly Boddy, manager of Monsantos research farm.
Wind the clock back a few years, he said, and breeders wouldnt have thought it possible.
LONDON (Reuters) - Uber told a British employment appeal tribunal on Wednesday its drivers were self-employed, not workers entitled to a range of benefits, less than a week after it heard it would lose its London license.
The U.S. ride-hailing service has faced regulatory and legal setbacks around the world amid opposition from traditional taxi services and concern among some regulators.
It has been forced to quit several countries, such as Denmark and Hungary.
Losing its license in London, one of the worlds wealthiest cities, is one of the U.S. technology firms biggest setbacks so far.
The London regulator cited the firms approach to reporting serious criminal offences and background checks on drivers.
It can operate during its appeal, which could last months.
Last year, two drivers successfully argued at a tribunal that Uber exerted significant control over them to provide an on-demand taxi service and had responsibilities in terms of workers rights.
At the two-day appeal hearing starting on Wednesday, Uber said its drivers were self-employed and worked the same way as those at long-established local taxi firms.
The self-employed are entitled to only basic protections such as health and safety, but workers receive benefits such as the minimum wage, paid holidays and rest breaks.
This would add to Ubers costs and bureaucracy across Britain.
The position of drivers who use the App is materially identical to the (familiar and long-established) position of self-employed private hire drivers who operate under the auspices of traditional minicab firms, Uber said in its court submission.
Minicabs, or private hire vehicles, sprung up in Britain more than 50 years ago.
Minicabs cannot be hailed in the street like traditional taxis, but can be booked for specific times and places via a registered office with a call or via the internet.
People take part in a protest against Uber and in favour of labour rights in central London, Britain, September 27, 2017.
REUTERS/Mary Turner

PROTEST MARCH

Ubers lawyer Dinah Rose said she would not discuss the firms loss of license except to say: Its quite apparent from that decision that Uber is right to point out to this tribunal the regulatory constraints under which it operates.
Around 200 trade union-led protesters marched through central London on Wednesday against what they called precarious labor in the gig economy, where people work for various employers at the same time without fixed contracts.
Slideshow (5 Images)

All Uber want to do is flood the market with drivers, with no responsibility nor liability - keep reducing fares to attract more customers, while drivers carry all the risks, Yaseen Aslam, one of the two drivers involved in the tribunal claim, told the protest.
Some, however, opposed the decision by Londons regulator to strip Uber of its license, saying the firm should be allowed to operate but must grant workers rights.
In a bid to strengthen itself in Britain, Uber said on Wednesday it was seeking to appoint a UK chairman, in a newly created non-executive role which it began recruiting for around six weeks ago.
In a further challenge for Uber, law firm Leigh Day said it would represent a female driver who says Uber is putting her and other women at risk as drivers do not know the passengers destination until they get in the car, and that could mean traveling to a remote or unsafe area.
An Uber spokesman said drivers could cancel trips without penalty and did not have to go to a particular area if they did not want to.
He said many women worked for Uber due to its safety features.
One of the main reasons why women choose to drive with Uber is because of the safety features in the app.
All trips are GPS tracked and a driver is able to share a live map of their trip with a friend or loved one, he said.
Henri Poupart-Lafarge, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Alstom, shakes hands with Siemens President and CEO Joe Kaeser (L) at a news conference to announce their deal to merge their rail operations, creating a European champion, in Paris, France, September 27, 2017.
REUTERS/Stephane Mahe

PARIS/FRANKFURT (Reuters) - A merger of the rail businesses of Germanys Siemens (SIEGn.DE) and Frances Alstom (ALSO.PA), billed as creating a European champion, was welcomed by investors but criticized in France as giving away control to Germany and risking job cuts.
The tie-up, set to help the European companies counter the rapid rise of Chinas state-owned CRRC 601776.SS, represents an industrial win for Macron, who is proposing sweeping reforms for Europe including deeper trade cooperation.
While his government said on Wednesday the deal would preserve strategic interests, others accused him of neglecting national concerns.
It is bound to bring a restructuring and no doubt the culling of hundreds of jobs, said Olivier Kohler, a trade union official in the eastern French town of Belfort, where Alstom makes the high-speed TGV trains that travel the length and breadth of the country.
Alstom shares jumped as much as 8.5 percent and Siemens rose 2 percent as analysts focused on the cost savings.
French and German leaders have for years called for the creation of European champions such as Airbus (AIR.PA) to capitalize on the strengths of Europes single market and create the scale needed to compete with U.S. and Asian rivals.
Yet discussions have often run into difficulties as politicians vie to protect local jobs and retain national influence over an industrial sector.
Under the rail deal announced on Tuesday, Siemens will have a small majority of the Paris-based and listed combination, which promises eventual annual cost savings of 470 million euros ($552 million) a year, while Alstom boss Henri Poupart-Lafarge will become its chief executive.
While Joe Kaeser, CEO of Siemens, acknowledged there would be job losses, he said they would be in support functions such as human resources rather than in engineering.
Of course there will be redundancies, thats part of the synergies, told a news conference.
French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire told reporters in Paris he hoped Europe could now go on to create a leading naval company at a Franco-Italian summit in Lyon.
That would be part of a deal between Paris and Rome over the STX France shipyards.
Henri Poupart-Lafarge, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Alstom, attends a news conference with Siemens CEO to announce their deal to merge their rail operations, creating a European champion, in Paris, France, September 27, 2017.
REUTERS/Stephane Mahe

COST SYNERGIES

What makes this deal attractive are the targeted cost synergies, wrote Barclays analyst James Stettler, who rates Alstom overweight and Siemens neutral.
If successful, this deal should in our view create significant value for both parties.
Baader Helvea Equity Research analysts described the Siemens-Alstom agreement as a strategic move that has to be seen against the backdrop of increasing international competition over the past decade.
Slideshow (8 Images)

Siemens will control Siemens Alstom, with 50 percent of the combination plus a few symbolic shares.
It will also get warrants allowing it to eventually acquire another 2 percent.
Alstoms shareholders, meanwhile, are set to receive two special dividends from the tie-up.
ANTI-TRUST QUESTIONS

Some analysts were not convinced that squeezing costs out of the combined business would be easy and Deutsche Bank kept a hold rating on Alstom shares.
Politicians will also likely try to ensure some form of jobs protection in France and Germany ... making cost synergies difficult to extract, Deutsche Bank analysts wrote in a note.
The Siemens and Alstom transport businesses have combined sales of 15.3 billion euros and earnings before interest and tax of 1.2 billion euros, raising questions over whether the deal could fall foul to European anti-trust regulations.
But Alstoms Poupart-Lafarge said the two had done their homework, adding he was confident of finding a solution.
Of course this is a large deal so no surprise it will be looked quite closely by the European Commission, he said.
(Reuters) - Nike Incs (NKE.N) fight to claw back market share in an intensifying U.S. sneaker price war is still some way off bearing fruit, analysts said on Wednesday, a day after the sportswear giant reported its weakest quarterly sales growth in nearly seven years.
At least nine brokerages cut their price targets on the stock after Nike warned of a further fall in revenue in its biggest market following a 3 percent drop in the first quarter that was its first outright decline in 2-1/2 years.
Nike shares fell as much as 5 percent to $51.03 in morning trading, its lowest since mid June, and pulled down shares of rival Under Armour Inc (UAA.N).
Nike's stock was also the top percentage loser on the Dow Jones Industrial Average .DJI on Wednesday.
Analysts from some of the worlds major brokerages remain upbeat on the companys plans to invest in a variety of different distribution channels but say it will happen too slowly to offset the growing battle for market share.
European rival Adidas AG (ADSGn.DE) has continued to snap at Nikes heels, even if the latters North American business is still more than three times larger.
Both face growing competition from others including Under Armour Inc (UAA.N).
We are seeing price points on Nike, Adidas and Under Armour product that we never thought possible in N.America, Cowen & Co analyst John Kernan wrote in a note, cutting his price target on the stock to $50 from $53.
U.S. sports good chains have been shutting stores and cutting prices as fewer shoppers visit malls and online shopping grows.
Nike still gets about 70 percent of its revenue from retail customers but has been investing heavily in e-commerce, partnering with Amazon.com Inc (AMZN.O) and offering heavy discounts on its own website.
Tuesdays results showed a 6 percent rise in inventories, which suggests the company is building up more stock to sell through online channels but may also indicate lower sales through traditional outlets.
Gross margins fell 1.8 percent to 43.7 percent, pointing to greater discounting in a market Nike warned would shrink overall in the current quarter as more stores shut.
We expect challenges to remain in North America for at least several more quarters, Moodys analyst Mike Zuccaro said.
J.P. Morgan analysts said they expected the sales picture likely to get worse before getting better.
The spate of price target cuts by brokers lowered its median price target to $61.74, down 2.7 percent from just a month ago, Thomson Reuters data shows.
Sentiment on the stock has been steady for three months, with 21 buy or higher ratings, 14 hold and 2 sell, the data shows.
Susquehanna analyst Sam Poser was the most bearish on the stock after the results, cutting his price target by $7 to $47.
Ultimately, we believe Nikes U.S. business will get back on track, but we are unsure how long it will take as we dont believe solutions are fully in place, Poser said.
FILE PHOTO: The logo of SK Hynix is seen at its headquarters in Seongnam, South Korea, April 25, 2016.
REUTERS/Kim Hong-Ji/File Photo

SEOUL/TOKYO (Reuters) - South Koreas SK Hynix Inc (000660.KS) said on Wednesday its board had approved its participation in a Bain Capital-led consortium that plans to purchase Toshiba Corps (6502.T) memory chip unit for 2 trillion yen ($17.7 billion).
SK Hynix said in a statement it will invest 395 billion yen, part of which will be in convertible bonds that could allow it to take an equity stake of up to 15 percent in the future.
Toshibas board agreed last week to sell the unit, the worlds second biggest producer of NAND chips, to the Bain group although a formal signing has been delayed, with sources saying they did not expect it to be signed on Wednesday.
While talks relating to consortium member Apple Incs (AAPL.O) demands on chip supply have now been settled, the group still has to work out one snag that relates to financing in the event that legal risks materialize, one source with direct knowledge of the deal said.
A Toshiba spokesman said the firm was aiming for a signed deal as soon as possible.
Bain and Apple did not immediately reply to requests for comment.
Sources declined to be identified due to the sensitivity of the matter.
The Bain-led consortium will hold 49.9 percent of the voting rights in the chip unit, while Toshiba will hold 40.2 percent and Japans Hoya Corp (7741.T), a medical technology firm that also makes parts for chip devices, will own 9.9 percent, the SK Hynix statement said.
Consortium members Apple, Dell Inc [DI.UL], Seagate Technology Plc (STX.O) and Kingston Technology, will invest in the form of non-convertible preferred shares, it said.
Pressure from the Japanese government, changing alliances among suitors and a slew of revised bids has drawn out the auction over nine months - heightening the risk that the deal may not close before the end of Japans financial year in March as regulatory reviews usually take at least six months.
If the deal does not close before then, Toshiba - hurt by liabilities at now bankrupt nuclear unit Westinghouse - is likely to end a second consecutive year in negative net worth, putting pressure on the Tokyo Stock Exchange to strip it of its listing status.
The sale also faces legal challenges from Western Digital (WDC.O), Toshibas chip venture partner and rejected suitor, which is seeking an injunction to block any deal that does not have its consent.
Western Digital, one of worlds leading makers of hard disk drives, paid some $16 billion last year to acquire SanDisk, Toshibas chip joint venture partner since 2000.
It sees chips as a key pillar of growth and is desperate to keep the business out of the hands of rival chipmakers.
Toshiba has said the sale would improve its shareholders equity by 740 billion yen.
Amazon is expected to unveil new hardware on Wednesday at a secret press event in Seattle.
The company did not give any hints about what products it would be discussing, but a recent Financial Times report suggested Amazon is working on eyeglasses that include the Alexa voice assistant.
Other rumors include a security camera and updated Echo devices.
Perhaps Amazon is just eager to show off its new campus after Apple attracted attention its new Cupertino headquarters.
Wednesday's event is starting at Amazon's "Day One" building, a 37-floor tower that opened late last year.
The building is part of Amazon's campus in downtown Seattle, a $4 billion multi-building project that is still ongoing.
Related: First look at Apple Park, Steve Jobs' dream campus

The centerpiece of the headquarters is a building made of three converging domes.
Called the Amazon Spheres, the 90-foot high glass and steel structures will be home to a lush botanical garden and a 60-foot "living wall" made of plants.
Amazon launched its Echo smart speaker in 2014.
That device started a race among major tech companies to create their own versions of the surprise hit.
Google created the Google Home, Apple is releasing the Home Pod later this year, and Microsoft is working with third-parties on speakers that use Cortana.
Meanwhile, Amazon is working to get its Alexa voice interface in a variety of products.
The tech world is betting that voice will be the next big computer interface, and Amazon wants to keep its head start.
The United States has picked a big fight with a powerful trading partner: Canada.
U.S. trade officials said Tuesday that they plan to slap a 220% tariff on a new jetliner from Canadian manufacturer Bombardier (BDRAF).
The ruling, which Bombardier described as "absurd," risks further inflaming tensions with a vital trading partner that buys more American exports than any other country.
President Trump campaigned on the promise of a much more aggressive trade policy, but his rhetoric focused primarily on China.
Since Trump took office, it's Canada that has often been in the crosshairs.
The Trump administration has taken steps to impose duties of up to 33% on most Canadian lumber -- one of the country's top exports.
At least two more disputes are ongoing: Trump wants Canada to open its market to dairy products, and a spat has erupted over groundwood paper, which is used in the production of newspapers and magazines.
"Canada has made business for our dairy farmers in Wisconsin and other border states very difficult," Trump tweeted in April.
"We will not stand for this.
Watch!"
Canada has made business for our dairy farmers in Wisconsin and other border states very difficult.
We will not stand for this.
Watch!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 25, 2017

The disputes threaten to upend one of the U.S.'s most important trading relationships.
Canada is America's biggest trading partner after China, buying exports worth $337 billion each year.
There are millions of American jobs that depend on the trade.
Related: U.S. slaps stiff tariff on Bombardier's new jet

There is now talk of Canada striking back.
"I think where you are going to see retaliation is in areas where the Canadian government has discretion over purchasing American products," said Chris Rogers, an analyst at trade research firm Panjiva.
Canada has warned that it may ditch a $5.2 billion deal to purchase up to 18 fighter jets from Boeing (BA), the American firm that brought the Bombardier case to the U.S. Commerce Department.
"We won't do business with a company that's busy trying to sue us and put our aerospace workers out of business," Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said earlier this month.
Canada, which recently completed a free trade agreement with the European Union, has a reputation for punching above its weight on trade issues.
"Americans are so used to ignoring Canada that it would surprise most to know that Canada has a long history of fighting hard for its own interests on trade," Edward Alden, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, wrote in June.
A further deterioration of the relationship could damage Trump's ability to successfully renegotiate NAFTA, the 23-year-old free trade agreement between the U.S., Canada and Mexico.
Rogers said that Canada could pursue a much more aggressive "Canada first agenda" during talks, which are currently in their third round.
U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said Wednesday that his department has initiated 48% more trade cases than the Obama administration over the same period last year.
Ross expects the trend to continue, but added that Canada shouldn't take it personally.
"One shouldn't get the impression that we are picking out one country here or there for some selective reason," he said at a press conference in Hong Kong.
Trump, however, has not been shy about singling out America's neighbors to the north.
"People don't realize, Canada has been very rough on the United States," Trump told a farmers' group in April.
"Everyone thinks of Canada as being wonderful, and so do I. I love Canada.
But they've outsmarted our politicians for many years, and you people understand that," he said.
Europe's biggest airline has been forced to cancel more flights and abandon a takeover bid for Italy's national carrier as it grapples with its biggest crisis in years.
Ryanair said Wednesday that it will cancel 18,000 flights scheduled between November and March because of a shortage of pilots.
It said 400,000 people have already booked seats on these flights.
The latest cancellations come on top of 2,100 flights Ryanair has already canceled in September and October.
That means some 715,000 passengers in total have been affected by a staffing crunch triggered by a change in the way pilots take vacation.
The airline also announced it would withdraw from bidding for Alitalia, the bankrupt Italian airline, to "eliminate all management distractions."
Ryanair (RYAAY) had said previously that it would cancel 40 to 50 flights a day up until the end of October because of a pilot scheduling problem.
Related: Ryanair offers pilots major cash to keep flying

Ryanair said it would fly 25 fewer planes than previously planned over the winter period, and then 10 fewer starting in April, to avoid further cancellations down the road.
It said it would temporarily suspend flights on 30 routes out of a total of 1,800.
It said it hoped Wednesday's announcement would draw a line under recent turmoil.
"From today, there will be no more rostering related flight cancellations this winter or in summer 2018," Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary said in a statement.
"We deeply regret any doubt we caused existing customers last week about Ryanair's reliability," he added.
The airline said the new cancellations would affect less than 1% of the 50 million people flying Ryanair this winter.
Ryanair said customers should have received an email on Wednesday giving them between five weeks and five months notice of the cancellations, and offering them alternative flights or refunds.
Ryanair now expects to carry over 129 million passengers in the year to March 2018, two million fewer than it previously forecast.
It said refunds and costs related to the initial 2,100 cancellations would total less than 25 million ($29 million).
On top of that, free flight vouchers it issued to passengers would cost an additional 25 million.
It didn't say how much the cancellations announced Wednesday would cost.
-- Emma Bowden contributed reporting.
Doris Montalvo already escaped Puerto Rico once.
She left the island and its economic problems seven years ago and found work as a nurse in Connecticut.
She recently returned for the first time for vacation, and now she can't get out -- trapped this time in an airport terminal in San Juan, one sweltering corner of the humanitarian crisis caused by Hurricane Maria.
In 100-degree heat, with no air conditioning and a scarce security presence, Montalvo spent the night waiting with her daughter, three grandchildren and the daughter's boyfriend.
Scores of others waited with them.
They had little water, little food, no working ATMs and no idea when they would get out.
Montalvo, 54, had driven from the other side of the island because their flight there was canceled.
She and her family were told that the first flight they could get out of San Juan would depart October 9.
Hotels weren't taking reservations.
She couldn't withdraw cash.
Stress set in.
"We just want to get home and get back to our routines, our lives," Montalvo said.
"I don't feel safe here.
I don't want (my grandchildren) to sleep on the sidewalk."
One week after Maria battered the island, the more than 3 million Americans who live there are struggling to survive.
People are scavenging for food, collecting water from mountain streams and drinking the rain.
Power is out across the island.
Generators and batteries are keeping hospitals open.
The San Juan airport, by far the largest on the island, is barely functioning.
Airlines are having trouble printing boarding passes.
TSA equipment was damaged by the hurricane, so security checks are done by hand.
Only 10 commercial flights made it in and out on Tuesday, and only 18 were expected on Wednesday, according to the airport authority.
More relief flights are getting in.
Airlines are delivering food, water, medicine, blankets, cots, generators and blood for the Red Cross.
Those relief flights are returning with as many people as can get on the plane, United says.
Related: Puerto Ricans still waiting for aid a week after Maria's devastation

When she lived in Puerto Rico, Montalvo made $15 an hour as a nurse.
She got out in the early years of an economic crisis.
The unemployment rate on the island is double the national average.
The government is bankrupt.
People leave every year by the tens of thousands.
Now she makes $36 an hour at a dialysis clinic in Connecticut.
She needed to get back to her job, and she needed to get the grandchildren home to be registered at their new school, Walsh Elementary in Waterbury.
Montalvo worries they will lose their seats if they are stuck in Puerto Rico for weeks.
Fifty yards down the terminal, Stephanie Navarro also wants to give her two young daughters a better life.
They were supposed to move Tuesday to a relative's place in upstate New York, where Navarro believes she can find a better job and good schools.
Instead, they slept on the terminal floor, along with Navarro's boyfriend, Javier, waiting for the next Delta plane after their original flight was canceled.
"We're stuck here.
There's no phone to call people, there's no water, there's no ice, there's no nothing," said Navarro, 26.
Related: Who will help Puerto Rico?
Other travelers described their own nightmares.
Alicia Beniquez was traveling with her husband and her 3-year-old granddaughter.
Before trying to fly home to New Haven, Connecticut, she tried to return her rental car to the company, U Save, with a full tank of gas.
"You go to the gas station and all you get is $10," Beniquez said.
"I brought it back with a quarter tank and they want to charge you."
U Save did not respond to CNNMoney's request for comment.
Beniquez slept at the airport Tuesday.
Standing in line, Eric Mott tried to bring order to chaos.
He made a list of the names of the strangers waiting with him.
He planned to give it to Southwest Airlines employees in the morning.
He had three pages' worth already.
Mott, a real estate agent in Denver, wanted to make sure no one stole a place in line.
People were sweating through the night, sleeping on steel chairs.
"I'm a firm believer that people want to do the right thing, but then when emotions get involved ... " Mott said, trailing off.
"We're going to spend the night here tonight.
I want it to be nice and orderly."
Surrounded by strangers at an airport that was barely operating, he had no plans to sleep.
"I haven't pulled an all-nighter since college," he said, "so I'm due for one."
--Chris Isidore, Ivan Watson and Jo Shelley contributed reporting to this article
Drastically lower rates for businesses.
Fewer income tax rates for individuals.
A much larger standard deduction and child tax credit.
A repeal of the estate tax.
CNN obtained a copy Wednesday of a Republican framework for tax reform that has been in the works for months and will finally be presented Wednesday.
The blueprint, which President Trump will discuss in a speech Wednesday, omits many critical details and numbers that congressional tax writers will now have to decide on as they draft legislation.
It's not clear yet, however, just how closely the tax-writing committees will hew to that framework since it's been negotiated behind closed doors by just six key players from the White House, House and Senate.
And even that small group -- known as the Big Six -- took a long time to reach broad agreement.
How individual taxes would change

Reduce individual income tax rates: The framework shrinks the number of tax rates to just three from seven today.
The proposed rates are 12%, 25% and 35%.
But it will be up to the tax committees to assign income ranges to each rate.
Also, the drop in the top rate to 35% from 39.6% may not stick.
The framework gives tax legislators the "flexibility" to add a fourth rate above 35% to ensure reform keeps the tax code at least as progressive as the current system.
If 35% remains the top rate, Democrats will charge that reform is just giving a big tax cut to the wealthy.
And even though the administration says it wants reform to offer middle class tax relief, the framework calls for a 12% bottom rate, which is actually higher than today's lowest rate of 10%.
But typical families in the 10% bracket today "are expected to be better off" when all the changes under reform are considered together, the blueprint says.
Increase standard deduction: The plan doubles the standard deduction, to $24,000 for married couples and $12,000 for single filers.
Doing so would drastically reduce the number of people who opt to itemize their deductions, since the only reason to itemize is if your individual deductions combined exceed the standard.
Increase child tax credit: The framework calls for a "substantially higher" child tax credit, which today is worth $1,000 per child under 17.
It will be up to lawmakers to determine how much higher to make it.
In addition, it would raise the income thresholds for eligibility for the credit, meaning more people would qualify for it.
Get rid of valuable tax breaks: The framework proposes the elimination of most itemized deductions, including the state and local tax deduction.
It also eliminates personal exemptions, worth $4,050 per person.
So a family of four could no longer reduce their taxable income by more than $16,000.
Preserve some deductions: Again without specifics, the framework calls for lawmakers to retain tax incentives for home ownership, retirement savings, charitable giving and higher education.
But that doesn't mean lawmakers won't seek to modify the tax breaks that currently exist in these areas.
Repeal the Alternative Minimum Tax: The AMT most typically hits filers making between $200,000 and $1 million.
It was originally intended to ensure the wealthy pay at least some tax.
Kill the estate tax: What Republicans refer to as the "death tax" only affects about 0.2% of all estates -- and only those worth more than $5.5 million.
How business taxes would change

Cut corporate tax rate to 20%: Such a drastic drop from today's 35% rate would put the U.S. rate below the 22.5% average in the industrialized world.
But doing so will be expensive.
It's estimated to cost roughly $1.5 trillion over a decade.
Drop tax rates on small businesses and other pass-throughs: The top rate would be 25% down from 39.6% on the profits of so-called pass-through businesses.
A pass-through passes its profits through to partners and shareholders, who then report them on their individual returns.
The framework will recommend the committees include measures to prevent gaming, in which people try to recharacterize their wages as pass-through profits to get the lower rate.
Change how U.S. multinationals are taxed: Today, U.S. multinational firms pay a 35% tax on overseas profits when they bring them back to U.S. shores.
The framework calls for a switch to a "territorial system," where the overseas profits of U.S. companies would no longer be subject to U.S. tax, just to the tax of the government where the money was made.
The hope is that the new system will make U.S. companies more competitive with their foreign counterparts, and that they will use more of their foreign profits to invest and create jobs in the United States.
But to dissuade U.S. companies from artificially shifting their profits to low-tax (or no tax) havens, the framework also would impose a minimum foreign tax, though the rate is unspecifiied.
In addition, it would offer a low, one-time tax rate on existing overseas profits to entice companies to bring that money back too.
It's not yet clear if the tax would have to be paid even if the money isn't brought back.
-- CNN's Deirdre Walsh contributed to this report
I'm just starting out in my career and have managed to save up $1,500 dollars so far.
I want to start saving more and invest it in a way that can best put the benefits of compounding investing to work for me.
Any suggestions?
-- H.M.
Your question shows that you're already on the right track, by which I mean that you seem to get the fact that to build wealth and achieve financial security you need to both save and invest.
That may sound like an obvious notion -- and it is -- but nonetheless too many people put far too much emphasis on the investing part and tend to neglect the saving part.
In fact, I'd go so far as to say that while saving and investing are partners in building wealth, saving is the more important of the two.
It's possible to accumulate wealth solely by saving (although I don't recommend you limit yourself to saving alone).
But you can't generate wealth just by investing, as without savings you'd have nothing to invest.
And even the savviest investing in the world can only do so much if you're not saving regularly.
Here's an example.
Let's say that you invest your $1,500 in a diversified portfolio of funds that earns 6% a year.
And let's further assume that to get the benefits of compounding -- i.e., earning interest on interest or a return on your investment returns -- that you reinvest all your investment earnings in additional fund shares (something pretty much all funds will do for you automatically if you choose).
After 40 years, your $1,500 would have grown to just over $15,400.
Not bad, but hardly enough to set you up for life or to fund a secure retirement.
Related: How do I retire with $1 million?
But look what happens when you continually throw more savings into the pot.
If, for example, each year you save an additional $1,500 and invest that alongside your original $1,500 and continue reinvesting all your investment gains, after 40 years you would have just over $246,000.
Now we're beginning to talk about real money.
What you might find particularly interesting about this second scenario of saving and then investing $1,500 a year is that by the 12th year the amount you're adding to your stash through re-invested earnings actually exceeds the $1,500 a year you're saving.
Indeed, by the end of that 40-year period, your re-invested investment earnings each year would total nearly 10 times the $1,500 in savings you're kicking in.
That shows just how much compounding can work for you when you combine regular saving with investing.
Look what happens when you save more

But you can probably do even better.
After all, when you're just starting out, scraping together $1,500 a year to save may be a challenge.
But as you advance in your career and earn more, you ideally should be able to save more without crimping your lifestyle too badly.
And by increasing the amount you save as your salary increases, you can really start to see the bucks add up.
Let's take the case of someone who's 25, earns $35,000 a year and receives 2% annual pay raises.
If that 25-year-old saves 10% of salary each year and earns a 6% annual return on that money, by age 65 that person would have just over $725,000.
Push that savings rate to 15% -- the target recommended by many retirement experts -- and our hypothetical 25-year-old's stash would crack the $1 million mark.
Related: Is an annuity a good deal?
I'm not suggesting you can duplicate these figures exactly.
Neither I nor anyone else can precisely predict what returns the financial markets will deliver over the next 30 to 40 years (although many investment firms believe returns will come in lower over the next decade or so than in the past).
More importantly, even the most committed savers may experience bouts of unemployment, health problems or financial setbacks that knock them off their savings regimen.
The point, though, is that if you really want to build wealth and create financial security for yourself, you need to save diligently and invest sensibly.
And you should start ASAP, as even a few years of procrastination can significantly reduce the size of your savings balance.
(For example, if the 25-year-old above waits until age 30 to start saving 15% a year, his age-65 account balance would shrink by more than 20%.)
Tips for saving on a regular basis

So as a practical matter how do you do this?
There's no shortage of ways to save money.
Some people use budgeting software to track their spending in dozens of categories (lattes, clothing, telecom fees, dining out, etc.)
to find places to reduce outlays and squeeze out some savings.
Others like to use savings apps that invest your spare change or rely on algorithms that periodically shift money into savings supposedly without you noticing it.
If such systems work for you, fine.
Related: The secret to being a great saver

Personally, I prefer a simple system of setting aside a certain percentage of salary upfront -- ideally 15%, but you can start with a lower figure and gradually increase it -- and having that amount directly deducted from your paycheck and put into a 401(k) or transferred from your checking account to a mutual fund account.
I like this arrangement because it makes saving automatic, ensuring that the money you intend to save actually gets saved, not spent (which is usually the more likely outcome).
But whatever method works for you is fine, as long as you actually end up saving on a regular basis.
How to invest your savings

I also prefer simplicity when it comes to investing.
Ignore all the chatter from investing pundits about shifting your money from one market sector to another to maximize gains and don't fall for the pitch that you've got to invest in every new whiz-bang investment Wall Street churns out in order to earn competitive returns.
All you need is a simple mix of low-cost stock and bond funds, preferably index funds or ETFs.
Index funds and ETFs typically charge only a small fraction of the fees that actively managed funds do, which is important as research shows that funds with lower fees tend to outperform their high-fee counterparts.
You can get by with just a total U.S. stock market fund and a total U.S. bond market fund, but for additional diversification you might consider adding a total international stock fund.
If you really want to go the extra mile, you can also throw in a total international bond fund.
You can find such low-cost stock and bond funds at a variety of investment firms, including Fidelity, Schwab and Vanguard to name a few.
Related: I'm 23.
How do I start investing?
Since you're young, you'll probably want to tilt your holdings more toward stocks than bonds, as stocks have historically generated much higher returns.
That said, stocks can go through some pretty severe downturns, so you'll want to make sure you can handle the ups and downs without bailing out of stocks when their prices are depressed.
You can get a sense of how to divvy up your holdings between stocks and bonds by going to Vanguard's risk tolerance-asset allocation tool.
If you're not sure that you're up to the task of putting together a portfolio on your own, you can always invest in a target-date retirement fund, a type of fund that gives you a ready-made mix of stocks and bonds appropriate for your age.
One more thing: I get the feeling that you're anxious to start investing that $1,500 you saved up.
And such enthusiasm is fine, but before you start investing in stock and bond funds, you should first set aside three to six months' worth of living expenses in a very secure place such as an FDIC-insured savings or money-market account.
Yes, the returns will be abysmal on that money.
But the idea is to have a stash you can fall back on in the event of an emergency or to cover a large unexpected expense without having to tap into your stock and bond investments, which you'll want to hold for the long term.
So ramp up your saving effort, and once you've established that emergency fund, start putting together a mix of low-cost stock and bond funds or ETFs.
Then stand back and let the power of compounding do its work.
Grab a seat on the floor in front of the TV, fire up a '90s playlist and cancel your weekend plans.
The Super Nintendo Classic Edition has arrived.
Nintendo (NTDOF) on Friday will follow-up its ultra popular NES Classic Edition, a miniature version of its original console gaming system, by releasing a miniature version of its Super NES system.
The smaller Super NES Classic Edition comes with 21 built-in games, including "Super Mario World," "Yoshi's Island" and a new title, "Star Fox 2."
The NES Classic Edition was one of the hottest holiday gifts of 2016, and nearly impossible to find.
It was so popular the company announced plans to bring back the product in 2018 because of strong demand.
If pre-order buzz is any indication, it could be even harder to pin down a Super NES Classic this holiday season.
For now, the release is good news for anyone determined to once again beat the Rainbow Road level of "Mario Kart" and take a delightful trip down memory lane.
These throwback devices have massive mainstream appeal, and tug at the heartstrings of anyone who played Nintendo games growing up.
Related: Nintendo's mini-sized classic console is coming back in 2018

Unlike modern gaming systems, the mini-consoles don't connect to the internet and therefore, players can't download -- and spend money on -- new games over time.
But Nintendo is onto something with the introduction of the new Star Fox title.
That game is incentive enough for serious gamers to drop $79.99 on the console -- about $20 more than last year's NES Classic Edition.
(You'll need to play the first level of the original "Star Fox" game to unlock the sequel).
The size alone, while cute, is also smart: It's easy to toss the system into a bag and bring it to a friend's house.
The console comes with two wired controllers that fit in the palm of your hand.
That's a solid improvement from the NES Classic, which only came with one.
Related: Nintendo's mini-sized classic console is worth the hype

Similar to the NES Classic Edition, graphics are pixelated and gritty.
But you can argue that's perhaps part of the charm.
However, Nintendo still hasn't fixed one of the biggest complaints from the NES Classic Edition: the controllers' wires are incredibly short.
You'll need to pull up a chair or sit on the floor, tethered to the screen like old times.
It's endearing for the first 10 minutes -- and then you're ready for wireless controllers, a la 2017.
There's a reason why the first mini-console flew off shelves last year -- or went for three times the asking price from the third-party sellers on sites like Amazon.
The games hold up, and that couldn't be more true with the Super NES Classic Edition.
Bendgate.
Hissgate.
Now, Cracklegate?
Some early adopters of the new iPhone 8 and iPhone 8 Plus have reported issues stemming from the built-in earpiece.
The complaints call out a cracking or static sound when making a cellular or FaceTime call.
"We are aware of the issue which is affecting customers in a small number of cases," an Apple spokesman told CNN Tech.
"Our team is at work on a fix, which will be included in an upcoming software release."
Related: The iPhone 8 has landed

The complaints, first reported by The Verge, have surfaced on sites such as Reddit, Apple's (AAPL, Tech30) support page and MacRumors forums.
The issues appear to impact some users across wireless carriers.
Related: Apple Watch Series 3 is having connectivity issues

Last year, some iPhone 7 and 7 Plus users complained the devices made a hissing or buzzing sound when processor-intensive apps, such as games, were used.
The phenomenon was dubbed "Hissgate" on social media sites.
Previously, "Bendate" was born following the release of the iPhone 6 Plus.
Users discovered the larger-sized smartphone bent when under certain amounts of pressure.
The iPhone 8 and iPhone 8 aren't the only new devices with complaints.
The company confirmed last week that its Apple Watch Series 3 experienced issues connecting to LTE networks.
The built-in cellular connection, a first for the Apple Watch, has been a major selling point for the new device.
Apple said it would investigate a fix for a future software release.
Twitter hasn't said who exactly is in the test group for its longer tweets, but now we know one user who isn't: Donald Trump.
On Tuesday, Twitter (TWTR, Tech30) announced it would test doubling the character limit of tweets as part of an ongoing effort to make the social network more intuitive and appealing.
The announcement quickly set off speculation and alarm bells among some users who worried what President Trump, a prolific tweeter, might do with all the extra space.
In response, Twitter cofounder Biz Stone said President Trump is "not in the test group" for the expanded tweets.
Related: Why Trump's offensive tweets don't get him kicked off Twitter

Trump has been both a blessing and a curse for Twitter.
On a daily basis, Twitter is mentioned in newspapers and TV stations around the world because of Trump's tweets.
But it also comes under scrutiny.
Just this week, Twitter faced questions from users about why it wouldn't remove a controversial tweet from Trump, which North Korea's foreign minister had called a declaration of war.
"Just heard Foreign Minister of North Korea speak at U.N.," Trump tweeted on September 23.
"If he echoes thoughts of Little Rocket Man, they won't be around much longer!"
In a six-tweet response thread, Twitter said one of the factors it takes into account when weighing whether to remove a tweet is the newsworthiness and public interest of the post.
By definition, Trump's tweets will always be newsworthy -- and soon, they may be longer, too.
You'll soon be able to text on any Delta flight for free.
Delta (DAL) flights worldwide will have free texting through a Gogo app, starting Sunday.
Delta CEO Ed Bastian announced the news on "CBS This Morning" on Wednesday.
"We want our customers when they're flying to stay connected," Bastian said.
Related: Netflix wants to make it easier to binge-watch on planes

Free messaging will be available on Gogo-enabled Delta flights for planes with two or more cabins.
Travelers will be able to access the feature through Delta's Wi-Fi portal page, airborne.gogoinflight.com.
Delta has 1,300 planes worldwide and all but 130 of them have Wi-Fi, according to a Delta spokeswoman.
Gogo is a popular in-flight internet and entertainment service used by airlines.
Gogo's pricing for Wi-Fi on flights varies depending on the plan, but Delta customers will not have to pay for Wi-Fi access for texting.
Delta passengers can message via iMessage, WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger.
But the service is only available for text use and does not support sending photo or video files, according to a Delta statement.
Related: Delta is getting out of Venezuela

When asked if in-flight calls would be next for Delta, Bastian said "never in my lifetime."
The company said in a press release the move is the first by a U.S. global carrier, which it defines as a U.S.-based airline operating trans-oceanic routes.
The effort is part of Delta's multi-billion dollar investment in the "customer experience."
Airlines are looking to lure customers by providing perks like free messaging.
Earlier this week, Netflix (NFLX, Tech30) said it will offer its low-broadband mobile technology to airline carriers in early 2018.
The auto industry is going electric.
Is aviation next?
Major European carrier EasyJet announced Wednesday that it is teaming up with U.S. startup Wright Electric to build an all-electric airliner.
The aircraft they have in mind would handle short routes of 335 miles or less -- think New York to Boston or London to Paris.
EasyJet, a budget airline that specializes in shorter flights, said the new aircraft would cover 20% of its passenger journeys.
The airline said it has been working closely with Wright Electric this year and it hopes to have an electric commercial aircraft flying in the next decade.
"We can envisage a future without jet fuel and we are excited to be part of it.
It is now more a matter of when not if a short haul electric plane will fly," said EasyJet CEO Carolyn McCall.
Related: Would you fly pilotless plane?
Wright Electric was founded in 2016 by a team of battery chemists, aerospace engineers and electric vehicle experts from NASA, Boeing (BA) and Cessna.
It received funding from Harvard University and startup incubator Y Combinator, which helped fund Dropbox, Reddit and Airbnb.
EasyJet did not reveal the financial terms of its partnership with the startup.
Jeffrey Engler, the chief executive of Wright Electric, said that working with EasyJet is "a powerful validation of our technology approach."
EasyJet said the startup has already demonstrated its first two-seater plane, showing it can make the technology work on a smaller scale.
Electric planes could be a game changer for airlines, because fuel is one of their biggest costs.
They are also better for the environment.
"Just as we have seen with the automotive industry, the aviation industry will be looking to electric technology to reduce our impact on the environment," McCall said.
Nike is a big hit in China.
But the sneaker giant's sales in the U.S. continue to tumble.
Shares of Nike (NKE), the worst performing Dow stock of 2016, fell more than 3% in early trading Wednesday after the company reported revenue below Wall Street's forecasts.
Its biggest problem: a continued slowdown in its home market.
Sales in North America fell 3% from a year ago.
China sales did rise 9%.
But North America accounts for more than 40% of Nike's total sales.
So the strength in China was not enough to offset the weakness in the U.S.

Nike, along with struggling rival Under Armour (UAA), has faced brutal competition at home from a resurgent Adidas (ADDDF), which recently moved ahead of Nike's Jumpman 23 Michael Jordan line of shoes to become the second-best selling sneaker brand in America.
Related: Slam dunk for Adidas as sales top Nike's Jordan brand

Nike has also been dragged into the recent war of words between President Trump and high profile athletes about NFL players not standing for the national anthem as well as basketball star Steph Curry's criticism of the president.
It's unclear if the controversy will impact sales.
But Nike has sided with its athletes.
The company said it supports players' right to take a knee during the playing of The Star Spangled Banner.
And Nike endorser LeBron James called Trump a "bum" in a tweet for his criticism of Curry, his rival and Golden State Warriors star, who has a line of sneakers for Under Armour.
Saudi women are celebrating.
They are finally being allowed to drive.
For years they have called for change, and some have been arrested for defying the driving ban.
But a royal decree announced late Tuesday has changed all that.
Detailed recommendations will follow within 30 days, and the government has until June 24, 2018, to lift the ban.
The dramatic step should boost efforts to overhaul the Saudi economy, spearheaded by a young crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman.
The focus of his reform program -- Vision 2030 -- is to end the Kingdom's dependence on energy in the next decade.
That will require a huge diversification of the economy, including giving women a much bigger role.
Only 22% of women are active in the workforce.
Vision 2030 aims to lift that to 30%.
And at 33%, the unemployment rate for women is much higher than for men.
Saudi unemployment overall is 12.7%.
Vision 2030 was unveiled in 2016 and did not specifically address the issue of women driving.
Related: New app helps Saudi women claim their rights

But there have been signs of progress for women since the radical plan was launched.
In February, three top jobs in finance, including the head of the stock exchange, were filled by women.
A few months later, King Salman ordered a review of laws that still make it hard for many women to work, travel, undergo medical procedures and go to university without the permission of a male relative or spouse.
Ending the driving ban should bring broad economic benefits, and help the government meet its target of generating 65% of GDP from the private sector.
"[Lifting the ban] will have an enormous trickle down effect for many sectors of the economy from automobiles, to retail consumption and greater productivity," said John Sfakianakis, director of economic research at the Gulf Research Center in Riyadh.
"More women will have the ability to work but also have an incentive to work as more will be able to save," because they won't have to pay for drivers, he added.
Related: Saudi Arabia pushes through pain of breaking oil habit

Many working Saudi women have to rely on drivers, taxis or male family members to get around, including to work.
Employers will benefit too.
Some companies add the cost of a driver to salaries and even locate factories and offices in city centers to make it easier for women to get to their place of work.
Pressure for change had been building for some time.
In a blog post last year, Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal wrote it was "high time that women started driving their cars."
Families who hire foreign drivers could save 3,800 riyals ($1,000) a month on average if women were allowed to drive, he noted.
The Kingdom still has a long way to go, however.
Saudi is one of the worst countries in the world for gender inequality, including in income, according to a report by the World Economic Forum.
Analysts say that the ruling royal family is likely to tread carefully on removing remaining obstacles to women to avoid a backlash from conservative religious authorities who, for decades, have exercised enormous influence in the home of Islam's holiest sites.
Sofia Vergara is best known for her role on the hit TV series "Modern Family."
But she has another job on the side: businesswoman.
The Colombian actress has played a starring role in a series of businesses going back decades, often addressing a social issue that is close to her heart.
The latest is an underwear subscription service called EBY.
The company delivers women's underwear, and 10% of net sales go toward microfinance loans for female entrepreneurs.
"The impact and the profitability of the business are both equally important to me; hence why I invested in a social enterprise," said Vergara.
Vergara isn't hurting for cash.
She's been the highest-paid actress on television for the past six years according to Forbes, with total earnings of $41.5 million in the year ended June.
Forbes says that Vergara's role on "Modern Family" accounts for only a quarter of her income.
The rest comes from movie roles, speaking engagements, licensing deals and her own businesses.
Her ventures are often aimed at empowerment.
"As a woman who has been able to build my career through business, business was the most logical way to enable other women," said Vergara.
The actress got her start in business in 1994, when she noticed there weren't many agents representing Hispanics in the entertainment industry.
Her response was to find a business solution.
The result -- launched with co-founder Luis Balaguer -- was talent management firm Latin World Entertainment (LWE).
Los Angeles-based LWE now represents some of the biggest names in Spanish-language TV, and has since expanded into licensing and marketing.
"I believe the most powerful way to have an impact is through business," said Vergara.
Another recent venture is Raze, a Latino-focused digital media company that Vergara started with Balaguer and Emiliano Calemzuk, the former president of Fox Television Studios.
Renata Black, who co-founded EBY with Vergara, said the TV star does plenty of due diligence before making an investment.
Vergara conducted months of research before she decided to throw her weight behind EBY.
She is actively involved in all parts of the business.
"She has an amazing commercial eye and she really is part of the design process, she's part of the brand vision, she's part of the execution of how that brand comes to life ... so she has her hands in mostly everything," said Black.
"This is her number one thing that she feels genuinely very passionate about," she added.
Gun companies are suffering a sales slump under the Trump administration.
But a regulatory change could give them a boost overseas.
The administration is considering shifting oversight of gun exports from the State Department to the Commerce Department.
The proposed change would treat handguns more like commodities and less like military weapons, and loosen the bureaucracy for gun manufacturers.
"They are currently hamstrung by considerable red tape," gun industry analyst Rommel Dionisio wrote in a report for Aegis Capital.
Right now, the State Department oversees most weapon exports, including handguns, and evaluates them from a national security perspective.
The Commerce Department oversees exports such as textiles, steel and food, plus some types of guns commonly used in hunting.
Moving most gun exports under the Commerce Department would eliminate certain registration requirements and fees for gun makers.
Analysts and a gun industry group say it would open a foreign market that is mostly untapped.
"This initiative will improve our nation's ability to compete in the global marketplace for commercial and sporting firearms and ammunition without impairing national security," the National Shooting Sports Foundation, a gun industry group, said in a statement.
The State Department would continue to monitor exports of military-grade weapons like machine guns and rocket launchers.
But the oversight of semiautomatic AR-15s, which are commercially available in the United States, would shift to the Commerce Department.
Rachel Stohl, director of the Conventional Defense Program at the Stimson Center, a policy research organization on security threats, said she opposes a policy that could it make it easier for commercially available guns like the .50-caliber Barrett, a rifle favored by snipers, to end up in the wrong hands.
"This is about preventing U.S.-origin weapons for ending up in the hands of those that use them to commit human rights violations, for terrorist purposes, for criminal purposes," she said.
Related: No fed gun control for new silencer-muzzleloader

The stock prices for Sturm Ruger (RGR) and American Outdoor Brands (AOBC), which owns Smith & Wesson, surged last week after Reuters first reported that the shift was under consideration.
The news was later confirmed by CNNMoney.
A State Department official told CNNMoney that the administration was working with Commerce "to ensure that U.S. industries have every advantage in the global marketplace, while at the same time ensuring the responsible export of arms."
If it's approved by the White House, an oversight change could take months or longer to complete.
An executive with American Outdoor Brands declined to comment.
Sturm Ruger did not return messages.
Sturm Ruger, in its most recent earnings report, said only 5% of its gun sales come from exports.
American manufacturers exported $680 million worth of guns in the last fiscal year.
The United States imported more than $2 billion, according to Chris Rogers, gun industry analyst for Panjiva.
Related: Gun maker shares spike on Trump move to loosen export oversight

Rogers said the biggest share of gun exports went to Canada ($144 million), followed by Australia ($58 million,) Japan ($46 million), Britain ($37 million) and Israel ($35 million).
He said buyers include the military, police and individuals.
"When it comes to competing for existing demand, we have seen the Trump administration, including the president himself, actively get out there and sell," Rogers said.
"The government can certainly help crack open those markets."
Gun sales slowed precipitously after Donald Trump won the presidency.
Gun buyers had stocked up because they feared Hillary Clinton would win and push for tighter gun control.
When she lost, that fear evaporated, and sales slumped.
Analysts point out that U.S. companies will only benefit if demand for guns exists in those other countries.
"Just because you can sell them doesn't mean that people want to buy them," said Rogers.
"It's not like the Europeans are lining up to import handguns from the U.S."

Related: Gun companies are feeling a Trump slump hangover

Many of the most prominent gun companies in the world are located in Europe.
Dionisio said that police departments and government agencies in other countries are likely to "retain considerable loyalty to their own domestic firearms producers," like Beretta in Italy and Heckler & Koch in Germany.
But other countries in Latin America and Africa, which don't have well known gun brands, might jump at the chance to buy American, said Rogers.
The problem?
There's no overseas sales team at many manufacturers.
The gun companies would have "to rebuild an international sales force almost from scratch," Dionisio said.
China unexpectedly started buying coal from North Korea again last month, raising questions about its commitment to cracking down on trade with Kim Jong Un's regime.
Beijing said in February that it would halt all coal shipments from North Korea through the end of this year.
Official Chinese customs data shows the country stuck to that pledge until August, when it imported 1.64 million tons of coal, worth about $138 million, from its smaller neighbor.
News of the coal purchases comes as President Trump is stepping up efforts to try to stifle trade between North Korea and other countries in order to pressure Kim to back down on his country's rapidly advancing nuclear weapons program.
Coal was one of North Korea's top exports to China, its main trading partner.
The U.N. Security Council in November put a limit on North Korean exports of coal -- and then banned them altogether in August.
Related: What comes after Trump's 'final warning' on North Korea trade

China 'not a reliable partner'

U.S. experts said Beijing's coal imports in August highlight its unwillingness to stick to promises to cut trade with Pyongyang.
"Even when China isn't officially violating U.N. Security Council resolutions, it violates the spirit of them over and over again," said Kent Boydston, a research analyst at the Peterson Institute for International Economics.
"It makes me question not just why coal imports appear to be happening again but what was the real volume of imports in the months it reported there were none."
Anthony Ruggiero, a senior fellow at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, said the development "shows that China is not a reliable partner."
"Sanctions against Chinese firms and banks likely will clarify the consequences of Beijing violating U.N. and U.S. sanctions," he said, referring to Trump's move last week to give the Treasury Department more power to crack down on companies and individuals that do business with North Korea.
Related: U.S. slaps sanctions on 8 North Korean banks

'I don't think this was an act of bad faith'

But Tong Zhao, a fellow at the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global Policy in Beijing, said China didn't violate any U.N. sanctions with the August coal imports.
The ban China announced in February was imposed so abruptly that "a lot of coal had already arrived at Chinese ports but had not passed through the customs," Zhao said, leaving the shipments stuck in limbo for months.
The new U.N. sanctions in early August banned coal imports altogether, but China had until September 5 to fully comply with them.
Beijing sought to resolve the lingering issue of the leftover coal from February by letting it enter the country in August, according to Zhao.
Related: North Korea sanctions: Here's what Trump did

"I don't think this was an act of bad faith," he said, adding that it generated only a "modest amount of money" for North Korea that was unlikely to have a material impact on its nuclear program.
When contacted for clarification on the coal imports, a spokesperson at China's customs agency referred to an August 15 statement stating that China planned to comply with U.N. sanctions on the import of coal and other resources from North Korea.
-- Nanlin Fang and Jethro Mullen contributed to this report.
Obamacare lives on ... for now.
Now that Congressional Republicans have shelved their plans to repeal the health reform law, the future of Obamacare is in the White House's hands.
And it's pretty clear that the Trump administration has little desire to fix it.
At the moment, Obamacare will be available everywhere in 2018.
At times this year, it looked like tens of thousands of Americans might not have any options on their Obamacare exchanges as insurers fled the market amid the uncertainty emanating from Washington D.C.
But other carriers eventually stepped in to fill the gaps.
That could still change, however.
Insurers have until Wednesday to sign the contracts that lock them into participating next year.
Related: Senate won't vote on GOP health care bill

Meanwhile, the Department of Health & Human Services is making major changes for the upcoming open enrollment season, which begins in just five weeks.
Critics say the moves will stifle sign-ups and further weaken the law.
HHS did not immediately return a request for comment.
Here's what the Trump administration has done so far:

Shortening open enrollment: The sign-up period will run from November 1 to December 15.
That's half the length of this year's enrollment season, which ran through January 31.
The administration says the shortened period brings it more in line with the enrollment season for Medicare and employer-sponsored plans.
Also, it means policyholders will have coverage for the full year.
But opponents argue that it gives consumers less time to enroll and could dampen sign-ups among the young and healthy, who usually wait until the last minute to complete their applications.
Several states that run their own exchanges said they will extend the enrollment period.
New Yorkers, for instance, will be able to sign up through Jan. 31 -- same as this year.
Slashing advertising: HHS will spend $10 million on promotions for open enrollment this fall, compared to $100 million a year ago.
The administration justifies the budget cuts by saying it is basing advertising on effectiveness and performance.
Officials say the agency spent about $100 million last year and 9.2 million people signed up for coverage through the federal exchange, healthcare.gov.
A year earlier, the agency spent $51.2 million and 9.6 million Americans bought policies.
Obamacare supporters decry the move as sabotage, saying advertising and outreach are critical to maintaining and boosting enrollment.
In particular, promotions help attract young and healthy consumers who may not feel they need coverage.
A bipartisan coalition of governors urged the administration in August to continue to promote enrollment.
Related: Trump slashing Obamacare advertising by 90%

Reducing funding for enrollment assistance: The administration is cutting the budget for so-called navigators -- who help people sign up for coverage -- by 41%.
The 98 navigator groups will receive a total of $37 million for the coming enrollment season.
More than three-quarters of the grantees failed to achieve their enrollment goals, officials said.
This fall, navigators will receive funding based on meeting their targets.
For instance, a grantee that enrolls only 30% of its goal will receive no more than 30% of its funding from the previous year.
Navigators signed up roughly 81,500 people in 2016.
Taking the federal exchange offline: The federal exchange will be shut down from midnight until noon all but one Sunday during open enrollment.
It will also be offline overnight on November 1.
The administration said maintenance outages always occur during the sign-up period.
But former Obama officials say they happened less frequently in prior years.
Related: Plan to shut Obamacare site during open enrollment draws critics

Leaving the cost-sharing subsidies in limbo: One big thing the Trump administration hasn't announced yet is whether it will continue funding the cost-sharing subsidies, which reduce deductibles and premiums for lower-income enrollees.
Many insurers said they had to raise premiums -- and some downsized or withdrew from Obamacare for 2018 -- because of the uncertainty.
The administration made the September payment last week, but said it is still reviewing the issue.
Kaiser Health News contributed to this report.
Sky-high tariff: Shares in Bombardier BDRAF

Boeing (BA) says that Bombardier received financial backing from the Canadian government that allowed it to stay afloat and sell the aircraft to Delta (DAL) for "absurdly low prices."
"The U.S. values its relationships with Canada, but even our closest allies must play by the rules," said Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross in a statement.
"The subsidization of goods by foreign governments is something that the Trump Administration takes very seriously, and we will continue to evaluate and verify the accuracy of this preliminary determination."
Bombardier said in response: "The magnitude of the proposed duty is absurd and divorced from the reality about the financing of multi-billion dollar aircraft programs."
The ruling announced Tuesday is the first of two in the case.
The second is expected as early as Oct. 5 and may add even more to Bombardier's tariff penalty.
The move could have serious implications for the renegotiation of NAFTA, the free trade deal between the U.S., Canada and Mexico.
The third round of talks concludes Wednesday in Ottawa.
From planes to trains: Europe is creating a train giant by merging French manufacturer Alstom (ALSMY) with the transportation unit of Germany's Siemens (SIEGY).
Siemens will own a slightly larger stake in the combined firm.
Shares in Alstom surged about 5% in early trading while Siemens shares added 2%.
The deal is more bad news for Bombardier, which is also in the train business.
The Canadian firm had reportedly been conducting its own talks with Siemens, but was left at the altar.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news.
In your inbox.
Subscribe now!
Trump's team on taxes: President Trump is expected to lay out a framework for his highly-anticipated tax plan on Wednesday.
Investors will be looking for details about potential tax cuts and information on how Republicans will be able to pay for those cuts.
Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were pointing up a bit as the U.S. dollar strengthens.
The currency move comes after Fed chair Janet Yellen suggested Tuesday that interest rates could rise sooner rather than later.
Most European markets advanced in early trading.
Asian markets ended the day mixed.
The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 0.1% on Tuesday, while the S&P 500 was flat and the Nasdaq gained 0.2%.
Market movers -- Nike, Essilor, Luxottica: Shares in Nike (NKE) are down by about 4% premarket after the company released its latest earnings.
Shares in eyewear firms Essilor (ESLOY) and Luxottica Group (LUX) are under continued pressure after Europe's main competition watchdog said it was launching an in-depth investigation into their proposed merger.
Luxottica (LUX) is the Italian firm behind Ray-Ban and Oakley sunglasses frames.
Essilor is a French company that makes lenses.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news

6.
Coming this week:

Wednesday -- U.S. Energy Information Administration releases weekly crude inventories report

Thursday -- Earnings from Accenture (ACN) and BlackBerry (BBRY, Tech30); Report released on U.S. gross domestic product for the second quarter

Friday -- Twitter (TWTR, Tech30) meets with Senate Intelligence Committee; Brazil unemployment data released; Elon Musk speaks about his Mars plans at a conference in Australia
A Chinese company is pushing the boundaries of what drones can do out over the sea.
Shanghai UVS Intelligence System is set to become the first company in the world to bring to market a commercial drone that's able to take off and land on water.
It says the roughly 20-foot long unmanned seaplane, known as the U650, could be used by businesses and the military.
The U650 drones should be rolling off factory production lines in Shanghai by the end of the year, a company spokeswoman told CNNMoney.
That would put UVS ahead of other firms that have developed amphibious drones but haven't yet moved beyond prototypes into production, according to analysts.
The U650 can stay in the air for up to 15 hours, flying as far as 2,000 kilometers (1,240 miles), according to the company.
But heavy cargoes will reduce those numbers.
Related: DJI's new drone fits in the palm of your hand

UVS sees delivery firms as one set of potential customers.
Like Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) in the U.S., Chinese e-commerce companies like JD.com (JD) are aggressively pursuing the use of drones in their supply chains.
UVS Intelligence System said it has contracts with several clients, but would not disclose further details.
The U650 can carry up to 550 pounds of cargo, but it will face limits on where exactly it can go.
Because of its size, the new drone won't be able to fly in the same airspace as manned aircraft, which will "restrict a lot of potential use," said Kelvin Wong, an analyst with research firm IHS Markit.
Related: U.S. military turns to Silicon Valley to protect troops from drones

The U650 may also appeal to the Chinese government, which has been building up man-made islands in disputed areas of the South China Sea.
The drones would be able to carry out surveillance and deliver supplies, which "comes in handy because you don't have a lot of runway in those environments," Wong said.
-- Nanlin Fang contributed to this report.
Europe is creating a train giant to fend off Chinese competition.
French high-speed train manufacturer Alstom (ALSMY) is merging with the transportation unit of Germany's Siemens (SIEGY), the companies said in a statement late Tuesday.
Siemens has been pursuing partners for its railway business, reportedly holding talks with Swiss manufacturer Stadler Rail and Canadian rival Bombardier (BDRAF).
The deal was billed as "a merger of equals," but Siemens will have majority control of the new company -- owning 50% plus a few shares.
Other terms are designed to defuse a potential backlash in France, where there is likely to be opposition to one of the country's industrial jewels coming under German control.
The combined firm will be headquartered in Paris and led by Alstom CEO Henri Poupart-Lafarge.
Siemens has agreed not to increase its stake in Alstom beyond 50.5% for four years, and it has provided "certain governance and organizational and employment protections."
Shares in Alstom gained 6% on Wednesday, while Siemens added 2%.
The deal aims to counter China's growing clout in global rail markets.
Beijing stepped up its efforts in 2015 by merging two big companies into state-backed giant CRRC, which describes itself as "the world's largest supplier of rail transit equipment."
"The global marketplace has changed significantly over the last few years.
A dominant player in Asia has changed global market dynamics," said Joe Kaeser, CEO of Siemens.
Related: The German economy has a weak link: Infrastructure

CRRC has won major contracts to supply metro cars to Boston, Chicago, Melbourne and other cities.
It has set up joint ventures in India, Malaysia and Russia.
"With CRRC seeking to expand into overseas markets, the pressure has been on to drive European consolidation and Siemens has been trying for a long time to find the right solution for its rail activities," Barclays analyst James Stettler said in a note to clients.
The combined company will still be much smaller than CRRC, with combined sales that are less than half of the $33 billion reported by the Chinese giant in 2016.
Related: Siemens dumps Russian partner over Crimea

French President Emmanuel Macron has been pushing for closer economic cooperation in Europe, including the creation of regional "giants" capable of competing with Chinese and American rivals.
Alstom sold its energy business to General Electric (GE) in a politically charged deal in 2014.
U.S. senators from both parties on Tuesday grilled the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission  the agency responsible for policing Wall Street  on its handling of a 2016 data breach that was disclosed only last week.
The hack breached the SEC's system for handling corporate filings intended for investors, known as EDGAR.
That has raised concerns that the hackers may have gained advance looks at filings and engaged in insider trading.
The SEC's disclosure also followed a much larger breach at credit reporting firm Equifax that exposed sensitive personal information belonging to 143 million Americans.
Lawmakers also blasted Equifax executives for their delay in disclosing the hack, even as some executives sold shares in the company.
Equifax's CEO stepped down Tuesday.
"I was disturbed to learn that the SEC suffered a cyber-breach of its EDGAR system in 2016, but did not notify the public, or even all of its commissioners, until it was discovered during your recent review," Senate Banking Committee Chairman Mike Crapo, R-Idaho.
SEC Chairman Jay Clayton told the committee that the incident "concerns me deeply" and added that he has ordered an investigation by the agency's inspector general.
On Monday the SEC said it had created a new cyber unit that will target market manipulation, hacking and dark-web operatives.
Clayton said he became aware of the attack in August, months after becoming chairman in May.
But he couldn't say when the hack occurred or when an investigation into the breach would be completed.
He also said he couldn't guarantee "that this was the only breach that we had."
Sen. Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio, acknowledged that the breach occurred before Clayton took office.
But he slammed the chairman for not revealing it more quickly.
"When we learn a year after the fact that the SEC had its own breach and that it likely led to illegal stock trades, it raises questions about why the SEC seems to have swept this under the rug," Brown said.
"Of course this breach took place under your predecessor, but the disclosure, or lack thereof, is all yours."
Brown and other senators also expressed outrage about how Equifax handled its breach, which it didn't disclose until six weeks after discovering it.
Three Equifax executives sold shares worth a combined $1.8 million before the company revealed it had been hacked.
Equifax says the executives were unaware of the breach prior to the stock sales.
Clayton refused to comment when asked if executives at Equifax engaged in insider trading when they sold their shares.
He did not confirm or deny that the SEC was investigating the issue.
However, he opened the door to potentially forcing the executives to return the proceeds of the stock sales, if the company's six-week delay in disclosing the breach is found to be improper.
Equifax's stock is down more than 26 percent since the company disclosed the hack after the close of trading on Wall Street on Sept. 7.
Under questioning, Clayton agreed that publicly traded companies needed to do more to disclose the risks they faced from cyberattacks and to disclose them more quickly when they occur.
He also said the agency needed more resources for data security and to combat future attacks.
The SEC did not seek any increase to its budget for next year, but Clayton said that would change when it submits its budget for its 2019 fiscal year that beings in October of next year.
"We are going to need more money for IT security and technology generally and I intend to ask for it," he said.
The amount a single Wall Street bank spends on cybersecurity "dwarfs" the SEC's budget, he said.
Hurricane Maria has devastated Puerto Rico, destroying buildings leaving its more than 3.4 million residents largely without power.
Food and drinking water are also difficult to come by, and the recovery will be long, difficult and expensive.
While the urge to donate clothes and other supplies is natural, money is the best way to contribute during times of disaster, charities and philanthropy experts say.
That's not to say there's never a time and place for supplies.
Diapers, for example, are often requested.
And donating directly through a website gets money to a charity faster than a text donation, even though the text might seem easier.
Here's how to make sure you are giving in a way that matters the most.
GIVE TO ESTABLISHED CHARITIES

GuideStar's website has a database that lets you vet charities .
You can find information on a charity's expenses, assets and revenue, as well as its programs.
Stacy Palmer, editor of The Chronicle of Philanthropy, also suggests looking at a charity's website for information on how it will use donations.
And look through local news reports for information on a charity's work, or contact the local United Way (in this case, Puerto Rico's).
It's up to you whether to go with a local charity that might know the area better, or a national charity that has wider reach.
TEXTING TO GIVE?
It might be tempting to make a donation through a text and have the phone company charge it on your phone bill.
It's easy, and it might feel as though it's the quickest way to get money to a charity.
But Palmer says that's not the case, as charities have to wait for the phone companies to release the money.
The quickest way to give is to go to the charity's website and donate directly, using a credit or debit card.
That said, relief agencies will need money beyond first few days or even weeks, so if the ease of text donations appeals to you, tap away.
To donate $10 to the Red Cross via text, send a text message saying "REDCROSS" to the number 90999.
Apple users in the U.S. can also donate to the American Red Cross through the company's iTunes and app stores to help people affected by Hurricane Maria and the earthquake in Mexico.
Amounts range from $5 to $200, and you can't use store credit.
The donations will be split equally between the two disasters.
On Google, searching for terms such as "Hurricane Maria" will let you donate directly in the search results.
Just scroll down and you'll find an option to give $5, $25 or $50 to the Center for Disaster Philanthropy .
TIMING

Donations often pour in immediately after disaster strikes but peter out during the long recovery process.
While there are a lot of immediate needs, Palmer says, charities are going to need support for the long haul.
Consider saving some of your money so you can donate again in a few weeks or months.
Better yet, set up a recurring donation to support your chosen charity over time.
Some charities will say when they have raised enough for a particular disaster and use any extra money for their general fund, Palmer says.
This isn't bad.
"One of the things this disaster shows is that it's important to have resilience," she says.
"It's smart to just give and say that it can be used wherever it's most needed."
CROWDFUNDING

Group fundraising services such as GoFundMe let people raise money for friends, families, neighbors or themselves  as well as for charity.
As always, do your homework before giving to a stranger or cause online.
GoFundMe has a special page for Hurricane Maria pleas for charities, individuals and families.
GlobalGiving , a crowdfunding site for charities, is trying to raise $2 million for local relief and recovery efforts.
Remember that donations are tax-deductible only if they go to a registered nonprofit or charity.
Otherwise, they are generally considered gifts.
HOLD OFF ON MATERIAL DONATIONS

Donating food, clothing and household items can complicate and even hinder relief efforts, experts say.
After Superstorm Sandy in 2012, for example, there were reports of relief agencies not knowing what to do with the piles of clothing and other unsolicited items pouring in.
The U.S. Center for Disaster Information says such donations "require transportation  which is expensive and logistically complicated  and a pre-identified recipient on the ground who will receive the shipment, pay customs and other fees, sort and distribute the items."
Unsolicited goods, the agency says , are "never required in early stages of response, and they compete with priority relief items for transportation and storage."
LOCAL HELP

Puerto Rico's first lady, Beatriz Rossello, has launched an emergency fund with help from private companies.
United for Puerto Rico (Unidos Por Puerto Rico) lets you donate through PayPal or directly to its bank account.
A growing number of everyday entrepreneurs are taking their hobbies and turning them into an extra source of income in a practice that has become known as the side hustle.
What I am talking about is creating an income by generating a project without quitting your day job," Chris Guillebeau, author of "Side Hustle: From Idea to Income in 27 Days" told ABC News.
Guillebeau adds that the side hustle is different from taking on a typical second job in that the idea is to turn your passions into a source of income.
The new trend, partly fueled by the internet, is also bringing in big bucks for some.
"My side hustle is running hiking tours in the city of San Francisco," Alexandra Kennin told ABC News.
"I'm earning about $50,000 a year just from the side hustle."
Alicia Ostarello and Angie Sommer said that their side hustle is to write wedding vows and speeches for others through their business "Vow Muse."
When not writing vows, Ostarello works as a copywriter for a tech firm and Sommer as a structural engineer.
The pair said they each earn about gross $15,000 a year from their side hustles.
ABC News

Tech giant Airbnb, known for its room-rental services, is also helping promote side hustles, after recently adding an "experiences" option in 40 different cities where people can sign up to sell walking tours, catered meals, painting classes or anything else you may have to offer.
Kennin said she does her side hustle in part to stay balanced, as her day job as a marketing manager keeps her mostly indoors and tied to her desk.
"I had sat at a desk for 10, 12 years in corporate environments and I realized I had moved all the way to San Francisco from Philadelphia and I didn't know the city that well," Kennin said.
Sommer told ABC News that the key to succeeding at a side hustle is that you have to be passionate about the extra work.
"You have to like it," Sommer said.
"That's the hard part.
You're tired, you have other things going and you still have to, like, have the energy and have the desire to do something else."
Guillbeau recommends taking it slowly at first, "I am telling people to look at what they have, the skills they have, invest a small amount of time and let's see how that goes."
Kenning, however, said she just encourages people to get started however they can.
"My advice for people who want to start a side hustle is just to get out there and do it," she told ABC News.
The Securities and Exchange Commission waited until Wednesday to disclose a hack of its corporate filing system that occurred last year.
The disclosure raises questions about the agency's ability to protect important financial information and comes as Americans are still weighing the consequences of the massive hack at Equifax.
The SEC, the federal agency responsible for protecting investors and ensuring markets function properly, is under fire after disclosing the hack of its electronic network that whisks company news and data to investors.
The breach occurred despite repeated warnings in recent years about weaknesses in the agency's cybersecurity controls.
Experts question the length of time taken to disclose the breach, and why the SEC isn't meeting the same security standards it demands of corporate America.
"Public companies have a clear obligation to disclose material information about cyber risks and cyber events.
I expect them to take this requirement seriously," SEC Chairman Jay Clayton warned in a speech in July.
While it discovered the breach to its corporate filing system last year, the agency says it only became aware last month that information obtained by the intruders may have been used for illegal trading profits.
"It took quite a while," said Robert Cattanach, an attorney at Dorsey & Whitney and former trial attorney for the Justice Department, whose work includes cybersecurity and data breaches.
"The integrity of our whole trading system is dependent on keeping this information secure.
... People have got some 'splaining to do."
The SEC didn't explain why the initial hack was not revealed sooner, or which individuals or companies may have been affected.
The disclosure came two months after a government watchdog said deficiencies in the corporate filing system put the system, and the information it contains, at risk.
The agency also didn't disclose any information about who might have carried out the breach.
A hack by Chinese or Russian actors can't be ruled out, experts say.
"Certainly state actors would be on the list of suspects that come to mind," said Marcus Christian, a former federal prosecutor who is an attorney working in Mayer Brown's cybersecurity and national security practices.
Still, he added, the list also would include "regular old criminal actors."
U.S. prosecutors in Manhattan brought criminal charges last December against three Chinese traders, accusing them of using nonpublic information stolen from two New York law firms to rack up nearly $3 million in illegal profits.
The SEC filed a similar civil action, marking the first time the agency laid charges of hacking into a law firm's computer network.
The confidential information was said to be linked to clients of the firm considering mergers or acquisitions.
Clayton disclosed the hack in a statement posted to the SEC's website.
It comes just two weeks after the credit agency Equifax revealed a stunning cyberattack that exposed highly sensitive personal information of 143 million people.
Clayton is scheduled to appear Tuesday before the Senate Banking Committee, and he is certain to be questioned about the hack.
Democratic Sen. Mark Warner of Virginia, a member of the committee, said in a statement Thursday that the disclosures by the SEC and Equifax show "that government and businesses need to step up their efforts to protect our most sensitive personal and commercial information."
The SEC chief blamed the breach on "a software vulnerability" in the filing system known as EDGAR, short for Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system.
EDGAR processes more than 1.7 million electronic filings a year.
Those documents can cause enormous movements in the stock market, sending billions of dollars into motion in fractions of a second.
Clayton, a Wall Street attorney appointed by President Donald Trump to the SEC post, said the agency has been assessing its cybersecurity since he took over as chairman in May.
Experts note, however, that both agency and congressional investigators have been critical for years of the SEC's handling of its information technology security.
Early this decade, the SEC inspector general's office uncovered security lapses involving SEC staffers who examined the data-protection systems of the stock exchanges.
Some of the staffers used unencrypted laptops to store sensitive exchange information  and then carried the laptops to a Las Vegas conference for information-security professionals that is known to attract hackers.
The 2011-12 investigation raised concerns of a potential breach of the exchanges' information.
David Weber, a professor at the University of Maryland's business school and a former assistant SEC inspector general for investigations, worked on that probe.
The agency "clearly has not held itself to the same standard that it expects regulated companies to adhere to" and "needs to up its game," he said in an interview Thursday.
In 2015, an impostor slipped through the EDGAR filing system with a bogus $8 billion takeover bid for Avon Products.
The stock rocketed 20 percent, but it quickly dropped, burning anyone who'd bought shares of the cosmetics giant at pumped-up prices.
The SEC later sued a Bulgarian investor for allegedly orchestrating bogus acquisition bids for Avon and two other companies.
The hack of EDGAR is especially concerning because of how widely investors have used and trusted the system, which first came online in the early 1990s.
Companies periodically file earnings and a range of financial information, and they alert investors to important developments that could affect their share prices, like government investigations, executive shake-ups and approaches for a takeover.
Some experts say gaining access to the system is too easy and the SEC should consider stricter vetting, though they caution that doing so wouldn't guarantee blocking scammers from getting through.
Experts say stricter requirements could include passwords, personal ID, secret questions and answers, security tokens that continuously flash new ID numbers, fingerprints, eye scans or voice recognition.
Orders for long-lasting manufactured goods rose a modest 1.7 percent in August, reflecting a rebound in the volatile aircraft sector.
A gauge of business investment was up for a second month, providing hope that a revival in manufacturing is gaining strength.
Last month's advance in orders for durable goods followed a 6.8 percent plunge in July, the Labor Department reported Wednesday.
Both months were heavily influenced by swings in orders for commercial aircraft, which surged 44.8 percent in August after having plunged 71.1 percent in July.
A closely watched category that serves as a proxy for business investment posted a 0.9 percent gain in August after a 1.1 percent increase in July.
Economists believe that U.S. factory output should continue rising in coming months, reflecting a rebound in the global economy.
Manufacturing has been improving since the middle of 2016, following a two-year slump caused by cutbacks in the energy industry and a strong dollar that made U.S. goods costlier overseas.
Prospects are brighter now with the dollar weakening in value this year, which makes U.S. exports more competitive on overseas markets, and a rebound in energy drilling.
The overall economy, as measured by the gross domestic product, expanded at a solid 3 percent rate in the April-June quarter after a tepid 1.2 percent gain in the first three months of the year.
Analysts believe activity in the current July-September quarter will likely slow a bit, in part because of the devastation caused by hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
For August, orders excluding transportation were up 0.2 percent after a stronger 0.8 percent rise in July.
Demand for machinery rose 0.3 percent while orders for computers and related products fell 2.3 percent.
Orders for autos and auto parts rose 1.5 percent after a 2.1 percent drop in July.
Transcript for Most online puppy ads are scams, report says

We're back with our big board.
This topic got us off track.
A big warning if you're trying to buy a puppy on-line.
The better business bureau said the ad you're reading is likely a scam.
Who's likely to become a vict?
And what brand might they use to lure us in.
They're trying to add a new member to the family.
You see the picture on-line and fall in love with this cute dog.
It's a dog that does not exist and not coming home but your money is already gone.
Reporter: Puppies like yorkys and fren sh bulldogs some of the most popular breeds to adopt.
Go on-line searching to buy one.
The better business bureau says beware they're the most popular lurers for scammers.
I don't think it's possible to do a search on-line for a pet or puppy without running across one of these sites.
Reporter: That's what Danny Shelton said happened to him.
He paid $700 to buy a dog on-line.
I got an e-mail from a shipping company that said you're required to pay $1,500 additional.
The shipping company was the same guy I bout the puppies from and knew I was scammed.
Better bu business bureau thinks 80% might lead to scams.
They're warning anyone searching for a puppy on-line is likely to encounter this fraud.
The scammers insist on e-mail and refuse requests to meet in person.
I don't think you can avoid is scam on-line.
The only way to be sure is see the puppy in person.
They think it's wide spread at this point.
Tens of thousands of victims out there.
Most likely victims are young folks who do everything on-line.
I don't need to see the dog.
I see the picture right here.
It seems natural to do things on-line.
The dog is -- you want to get a feel for the animal and see it in person.
They fall in love with the picture.
Some tips and to your point the other thing why the scam works is the price is solo it's so enticing.
If it's too low -- if it seems to good to be true it probably is.
Another thing seems like common sense.
You got to see the dog.
Don't do it if it's not in person.
Don't wire money.
As soon as you do that that's cash.
You're not getting it back.
Do it on a credit card.
If this happened to you, do you have any recourse?
You're probably not getting your money back.
They want you to report it so they can shut it down.
Once you do a wire transfer to get the money back is impossible.
Get your rescue on.
Go to the shelters.
So many pets wanting to find a good home.
The humane society will put I don't with a good breeder.
At shelters you can get full bred dog.
The humane society is begging you to come see them.
Those pictures, do an sbernlt search for that picture if that same picture is on a bunch of sites that's a stock photo and that dog doesn't exist.
Dating on-line.
Dogs on-line.
Come on people.
I don't understand.
Animal in person.
Or a woman or man or whatever in person.
North shore animal league is a good place to go.
Yes, it is.
Coming up -- thank you T.J.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Now Playing: Kevin O'Leary of 'Shark Tank' shares his top investing and credit card tips

Now Playing: Most online puppy ads are scams, report says

Now Playing: 'Shark Tank' star Kevin O'Leary shares 2 quick financial tips

Now Playing: Walmart tests out a new grocery delivery service

Now Playing: Bridgewater hedge fund manager Ray Dalio talks investing, leadership

Now Playing: Nine things Facebook vows to do to help combat election interference

Now Playing: Women accuse Google of discrimination against female employees

Now Playing: Silicon Valley CEO says she dyes her hair brown to be taken seriously

Now Playing: Florida Irma evacuee wins $10K in NC lottery

Now Playing: Hurricane Irma will likely be costliest storm in U.S. history

Now Playing: Barry's Bootcamp CEO shares top career lessons

Now Playing: Harvey triggers major spike in gas prices nationwide

Now Playing: Harvey has caused an instant spike in gas prices nationwide

Now Playing: Amazon and Whole Foods slash grocery prices

Now Playing: Gas prices expected to rise as Hurricane Harvey passes over oil refineries

Now Playing: Massachusetts woman quits job after $758.7M Powerball win

Now Playing: Superior outdoor products made in America

Now Playing: Johnson and Johnson ordered to pay $417M to one woman over cancer claims

Now Playing: Woman wins $1.6 million on Vegas airport slot machine
Transcript for Walmart tests out a new grocery delivery service

doctor's office or pharmacy.
Next tonight, your money and grocery store and big box stores competing for it.
And this question, would you let Walmart in when you're not home if they delivered groceries right to your refrigerator?
Rebecca jarv Rebecca Jarvis tracking your money.
Reporter: What if you didn't feel like you had to be at two places at once.
Walmart taking the convenience of home delivery a few steps farther testing a new service.
The driver enters a one-time use code.
Reporter: The company partnering with lockmaker August home placed an order online and Walmart's delivery person can gain entry to your home, even stock your fridge, all while you're watching in realtime on your smartphone.
I think for younger folks working and putting in all kinds of hours and having a large commute it's a tremendous idea.
Reporter: But raising questions, too.
Not so sure about them coming in my home when I'm not there.
Reporter: Bottom line, David, this is one more step in the major competition between Walmart and Amazon.
Both retailers dueling to increase convenience and of course, profits, too.
David.
Thank you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Bridgewater hedge fund manager Ray Dalio talks investing, leadership

Hey guys welcome to reeled is happy Friday I'm Rebecca Jarvis the chief business technology and economics correspondent at ABC news and we have a great guest here with us today.
Rate valeo he is the founder of Bridgewater.
Associates which is the largest hedge fund in the world a 160.
Billion dollars under management and he is also the author.
Of this awesome new book it's called principles.
And it takes us on a road trip through your life through all of these stories all of these lessons learned along the way.
You starting your work behind.
From your two bedroom apartment here in New York City 1975.
Welcome to real biz.
Tell us about the book tell us about the inspiration and why he would write something like this today.
I wanted to writer because.
I wanted to pass along.
Just different things that I learned in order to be successful.
What I did.
Was every time I was in the situation.
I would write down the criteria for making a decision.
And so like created this collection of principles over a period of time when in this type of situation that type of situation what to do.
Then and I didn't want.
Publicity I wanna be private but in 2000 they we and to spend the financial crisis.
And we did well and we received a lot of attention because of the way that we think differently.
And it was misunderstood.
Generally.
So I put the principles that I wrote on line there was downloaded about three and a half million times and received a lot of thank you notes.
And now I'm at a stage of my life while making the transition.
I'm making the transition from political the second stage of my life took the third stage in my life.
You know I think that it's that one was elected three stages basis.
In the first stage of your life your dependent on others and you learn.
In the second stage of your life fewer weren't working.
And others are dependent on you.
And then you get to assert import pictures successful and you're no longer interest it and being more successful yourself.
The thing that you want to do was make other people successful it's like your parents at a certain age you want to make the other people successful.
And 2017.
Is really my transition year.
For the set second stage of my life with the third stage and wildlife.
And I had this cookbook of recipes so to speak that when I was operating in that and various circumstances.
I would use and it it's been miraculous.
It's been so it helps people understand each in other words by writing down a principal.
We've been able would have better understandings with the people I work went.
And we've also been able to convert them and algorithms.
That means that the computers are making decisions with us.
So it's been very very impact fool and so the main reason I'm passing along his own want to pass along what I've learned that's been helpful.
In order to help of the people.
I also hope.
That it will encourage other people too bright they are principally because not just my principles whatever the recipes for success are.
If you would have think can I get the principles for I wish Steve Jobs I was Einstein I wish all of those people.
Wrote their recipes when I was encountering something what what I do at that moment.
You know so if others right principles.
We'll also know.
How to deal with each you know I think to be principal I think right now in the country.
We have to think what is being principles what principles.
Bind us together what divide us.
Can we be clear about those and walked the talk for all those reasons I felt it was compelled to pass them along.
Were any taking questions from all of you so if you do have questions feel free to leave them in the comment section something that you write about.
In in the book ray.
That I really respect is this idea that the right answer might not be the answer that you come to you but you're looking for the right answer can come from anywhere.
And to your point about finding the right principles.
There are a lot of Smart people in this world in there are ways to reverse engineer success by looking at what they've done by looking at what you've done.
How did you make yourself open.
And maybe it was in that sort of first to second stage in life how did you.
Make yourself open as a leader who.
Need to be trusted needed to be seen as the person with the vision but also be open to taking ideas from elsewhere.
Misstates.
The power of mistakes.
In the talk about this as well will this is how I learned.
And so it was of a changing moment and in 1982.
I had put the greatest failure of my life.
A head in two stated that they were there.
Our country's wouldn't be able pay their don't expect that the banks and so on and it turned out to be right about that got a lot of tension for that.
On Wall Street greed congress asked me testify in all of this.
And I thought one when they would have that bank defaults Mexico defaulted on its debt and on August.
I thought than we were going to have an economic problem and we did have a debt problem but we didn't have an economic problem the exact.
Bottom in the stock market I thought things were.
Going to collapse and they went all right and I was so wrong.
That I had to let everybody ago.
And I got down to the point where I was so broke that I had to borrow 4000 dollars from that.
To help pay for my family's expenses and things.
And it was incredibly painful moment.
But it was the best thing maybe that ever happened one of the best things.
Because.
As I reflected on that it changed my attitude rather than thinking I'm right I started asked myself satellite no one.
It gave me the humility that I needed to balance with my audacity.
It made me asked that question.
How to one knows them right and it gave me an open mindedness what I think is one of the greatest tragedies of mankind.
And it's because it's so easily fixed is that people have in their minds.
Their own.
Opinions.
That are often wrong.
The best opinion may not be the one in your head and so what if you start to think.
How to Lenovo.
Right and you go out and stress tests that opinion and yeah do it in an open minded way.
And you take in things all of a sudden you realize that you can have the best thinking of anyone around you.
And so the important thing is to be right but it doesn't have to come from you the idea in your head right and that led me to create an idea and their credit company reports.
I wanted to.
Brightest independent thinkers who would challenge feature each other to create an idea meritocracy.
And eyes I describe in the book.
You know how that meritocracy working and that's basically just three things.
First everybody's got to put their honest thoughts on the table to look at yes of people don't do that right so you have to encourage right.
So put the honest thoughts on second.
You have Stewart and Julian value thoughtful disagreement not view it is conflict.
Right OK you can't have that thing in your style make.
I'm comfortable with the conflict you have to go with the conflict and allow it to happen.
It is Reverend Wright.
Is there an opportunity to learn.
How can I do how could we collectively make a better decision than we do individually.
And then third.
If used if that's still doesn't resolve it.
You have to have idea America credit worries of getting past that disagreement.
In other words know who knows and knows we have what we call believability waited decision.
And that has been the key to the success.
Cause the power.
Of getting the best ideas and collectively working.
And that humility that fear of being wrong raises the probability of being right.
That's been the key so one of the key elements here is to do that you know but.
They eat the book is filled with a lot of those kinds of suggestions that if you can operate with this principle that as the State's these various recipes and lots of things.
Well what I like about it is it's taking whoever you are and it optimizing it because this well while you have played in the field of finance throughout your life.
This is the kind of user manual that anybody who's a manager whether your.
Starting a new company that deals in widgets or you're running a restaurant.
Or you are hoping to someday do one of those things or anything frankly as a leader this is a guide book and it starting point for people.
Yes and I found from a lot of of the people's reactions I believe it's true for me.
It is even be on that.
It's any relationship.
OK it's any relationship or it's even just figuring out yourself and what is the right way to make decisions.
The rich and well.
That's what that's what the word principles mean.
Yeah right how do you deal with reality to get what you want effectively.
And there's only two things you need to do to be successful.
You need to know what the best decisions are on you have to have the courage to make them.
And when you start to realize that what you have in your head may not be the best and and get it wherever it is.
It's powerful for you whatever does life.
Would of the decisions you're making.
Totally agree OK we have got questions.
Okay Matt asks what's your favorite recipe and haircut.
Are there a lot of different recipes.
But again just building on this thing I would say.
Think for yourself.
No way.
That you don't know.
OK you don't all know all the things that you need to.
So to be able to have that radical open mindedness.
To know your weaknesses.
And to know what to do about.
They're only five things you need to do really.
In order to get what you want the first thing is you have to have your audacious goals.
You you have to do when you're going to your goals.
You're going to and challenging your problems in your failures.
You have to die knows those problems to get at their root causes.
And those root causes may be weaknesses you or mistakes that you see you have to embrace those.
And look at those who I have a week and then you have to design your way out of whatever that weaknesses or whatever that mistake is to get around that problem.
And that may include if you have a weakness to be able to work with people who were strong where you or we can't.
And then with that design.
To then pushed through to results XQ that is so.
And other words.
Know what you don't know yes and no had to deal with it recognize.
That what you don't know is much greater than what you do know.
My daddy used to always say the more you know the more you know you don't that's right.
Right and so knowing how to deal with your not knowing not not embrace your weaknesses.
Know them figure out how to deal with them and do that collectively.
It's very powerful.
So how do you think about this what your hiring and how do you diagnosed.
And another person sitting across Romeo and determine whether or not they're aware those five things and that they would work out the team will not the people normally are not used to being in an environment in which there's that.
Radicals straightforward news and and dealing with those things.
And you talk about your honesty and realizing along the way that sometimes that radical honesty.
Didn't always go the way that you are expecting it to.
Right.
So the way we deal with it is we try to explain that explain in the book.
It's explained before they come we show people what the environments like a chilling videos.
You know we take everything for everybody to see.
We take everything for everybody to see.
OK so that that's way you have to have an idea meritocracy.
So because of people can't see things that you form their own opinion and right so we'll show them what it's like.
And then they make an intellectual decision.
They want this and then they come in because.
You know.
I guess there would described bridge ordered one sentence or hostess it's an idea meritocracy.
In which the goals or equally to have meaningful work and meaningful relationships.
The relationships part is as much the reward.
I and to do that we need to be radical truthful witness and radical transparency.
Because of what you can have an idea meritocracy.
And that's been the magic formula so weak weak first say you wanna do it intellectually.
It's like going into the Navy SEALs you might say I want to do it can't hurt you up for this and then you go in and you experience it.
And people go through an adjustment process and it typically takes about eighteen months all behavior modification typically takes about eighteen months.
Of getting used to it.
About a third of the people it's not for you know it just doesn't work out.
For that reason.
About the majority of people once they get to that perspective of having this transparency they could speak up vacancy that they want people can.
Communicate their protocols for having real idea meritocracy.
Then they don't want to work anywhere else.
Because they have relationships but they also know that there's office politics.
You know normally.
Behind the C rights at all.
You don't know what somebody's thinking about.
Velocity two years that's not the same here.
So there's a transition team and so it's from the answer your question.
It's from the beginning of exploiting it it's by showing of the videos it's by having toe in the water rates by going there fighting out of its right.
And then they have all.
Witty line it's all part of the evolutionary process right.
It's part of self discovery.
I don't think there's probably anybody that I know who's gone to company Bridgewater.
Who hasn't found it fabulous self discovery process I guarantee you it interest.
And if fruits and if it's for you it's phenomenal it's like getting fit it's a you know I was thinking.
Yeah it's sort Europe.
Nobody likes to exercise.
You know ward the diet or whatever may be that's necessary to do that but to have behavior change and make you feel more effective.
It's great.
So anyway that's different reactions.
Great answer.
And how I like that questions of Isabel was asking.
For those of you out there.
Where to the principles come from early life teaching.
Our principles come from interacting with reality.
And then reflecting on those interactions.
I've an expression.
I think it is Georgian troops that I experience.
Plus reflection.
Equals progress.
And what I mean is if you're doing something wrong.
You're gonna get communicated by pain and if you're successful.
You're not gonna change.
But it in the pain and on this day.
There's probably a lesson so washed my attitude stored to change whenever I would make a painful mistake.
I would think of it is a puzzle.
That would give me a jab.
If I could solve the pots and the puzzle was.
What would be the principles that I would use so that when I encountered the same situation again.
I would have a better result.
And the jab.
Would be that principle to have a better results and by writing them down.
So why thing.
That you are very systematic about your approach Yahoo!
This isn't a Willy Nilly reflection of going over the same pot again in the getting good.
Doesn't stick.
If so it seemed like they come from or.
Encounters with reality.
Particularly painful encounters if you loosen there's okay.
It's screaming at you.
That you need a principle to don't doing the same thing again.
And if you ride it down this is like thirty years of writing these.
Okay and then you look at it with people and you communicate with people is that a good way of dealing with that thing.
And edit and then one another one comes law.
As the same things happen over and over gray.
When another one comes along and you look at that principle or even when you're dealing with people you together agree on that study only a lose lose situation.
It compounds.
And it and that's where to build them they the principles that's most effective way.
I want it there's so many places I could go with this but I want to talk to a little bit about current events and what's happening in the world.
A question that I frequently get from people were looking up the market now the Dow the S&P 500 have hit new all time highs it seems like almost every other day this year.
Based on article at you mentioned that the world feels like 1930s.
Yup yup.
Where do you think we are in this current cycle and can it really last when.
Companies like apple and Amazon and FaceBook are 30% of the growth we've seen in stock so far.
Links but why it's very similar in 1937.
In we had a debt crisis in 2000 and day and in that period we had interest rates come down to zero.
And that was like 1933.
32 when interest rates it is a reaction to the Great Depression that's right.
And then there's the Federal Reserve in both of those cases the only time this century up.
Printed a lot of money and bought a lot of financial assets and so from the bought 2000.
Until the present.
Just like from 1932.
Until 1937.
Asset prices went up a lot of money supplies increased Wright what more money supply and the economy's rebound in him okay.
But that rebound.
Had a two tier economy read it it it there was one economy that did grates or if you look at measures like.
The unemployment rate and if you look at the stock market and so on that spot.
But if you divide the economy into two parts you see that there's two very different parts to Africa.
To put that in perspective the top 110 of 1% of our populations now worth.
Is equal to the 90%.
Combined the bottom 90% c'mon.
If you look at the bottom 60% of the population.
They have miserable existence economy has not worked for hasn't had any glee at having rat wages haven't gone up and.
And yeah percent of the country doesn't have a 401K or any kind of backed notes.
The aggregate no sense and worse than that.
It's the only.
Place in the world we're death rate to rise in another words.
Combination of opiates.
Suicide.
And other words bad economy he just carved out that 60% economy.
That's a very bad economy and so we have.
Just like the 1935.
To forty period.
And so we have that gap.
That's the biggest issue of our time it's reflected in the elections OK it's a big issue.
If the economy was to have a downturn.
Yesterday.
It would be a lot of anger that would be a wealth conflict that would be a social conflict between political con right.
So add were also what the point 1937.
Was the point where they stopped pushing those interest rates and.
Roderick there is now hiking they're not buying their their peeling back on on their purchases of asset write.
And so we are now in a situation.
In which we this Federal Reserve has got to be very careful.
The written because.
First.
All assets are sensitive to interest rate changes.
And we have a more leverage economy have that polarity.
So as we move forward.
The less of them 1930s.
It doesn't mean we have to repeat 1930s.
But the lesson of 1937.
Is with those large obligations.
And with that.
And there is in a symmetric risk on the down side and so to be careful about tightening monetary policy.
Because if you ask the Federal Reserve they can't explain the relationship between unemployment and inflation.
Ray okay.
What we won't really don't have inflation right now even though the unemployment rate has gone down in the one thing.
That you heard from fed chair Janet Yellen multiple times in the last.
Press conference earlier this week.
They can't really figure out why inflation isn't going up.
List you can't figure it out okay I have my own what you need to carry.
But I think that they're defining labor as unemployment.
Rather than the new world labor and think about it is a combination of technologies for good that is almost robots.
And technology competing with people and now what is the work force.
And the competition.
Between technology.
Other words what's happening now.
Is that as algorithms.
Are built they start to replace a lot of jobs estimated that over than you know next.
Twenty years we could lose about 40% of our work.
Yet you talked about it competent artificial intelligence algorithms automation all of those things can run have an impact of very significant want it.
Well it's not if it'd happen.
So when we look at this if the Federal Reserve does not know why flee his rise it okay.
And the risks array symmetric on downs are okay because it's so much easier.
To you know that tightening monetary policies that work causes a lot of debt when you raise interest rates.
You know that the brakes were on hand but if you're close to zero on interest rates and you've done a lot of quantitative easing.
And also asset prices have gone up in their very interest rates.
If you know all those things that you know it's not as easy on that it's a symmetric on the downside also socially and politically.
So wait at least until you see more sides of inflation.
Before worrying about the tightening of monetary policy that's the lesson of 1937.
The let in 1937 that was a small tightening set the stock market down 50% and caused a lot of social conflict.
That was the thing so be careful it's analogous to 1937.
So and I know we have to wrap things up here but what do you think about the fact that it very likely we'll see the Fed hike interest rates in December and then three more times next year from what they've signal is that.
If if all things are steady as they are at this moment if everything was held constant as they are at this moment.
And the Fed does exactly what it has signaled it will do.
Where do you think that puts us an okay spot or in a dangerous place.
I think that would be in a dangerous placed on the other hand let me say they're for the last I would say.
22 and a half years.
The Fed gave such indications before right and they haven't necessarily make that they didn't do any bat.
Okay they did they didn't do less lower right because.
As they.
Were feeling their way along.
They were they saw that that would not be a good move in hand so I believe that the picture that the Fed is painting.
In terms of its combination of interest rates are letting the balance sheet Ron down.
Will be not what they will end up doing probably.
Because I think that would be too tight at a dangerous time so I don't think they'll do that.
But time will tell.
Last question everybody.
Worst advice you received your career.
Make people.
Love they should make people happy.
I think I should I think I should help people be successful.
And that sometimes.
Happiness in that move that in the moment mood.
Is something that is the opposite you know the world is made up of first order consequences and second water yes.
And often the first to water consequences.
Eat something that tastes good.
Good in the moment that type of mentality commit necessarily pay off in the long run a lot of the time in actually so.
Think about what you.
You know.
Think about what is going to be what you really want and think about the second order consequences to get what you want.
Because we have two brains and harboring rail and we have the thoughtful part of our brain and it pre frontal cortex port thoughtful.
And then we have that emotional.
And emotional so wonderful thing but there are two types of emotions those that'll harm us and those are really that all what we want inspiration.
You know all of those good ones and to know that there's a great trick in life.
And that great trick of life is that those first order consequences.
That are the emotional ones can get us in trouble.
I believe that to be true so I would say that you know the worst is look beyond the first order consequences.
Fantastic rate Elliott thank you so much for joining us thank you it was really an interesting conversation the book is called principal.
Amazon might be sold out right now so if you're going.
Well put year old lottery and you're he'll be on the top of the list that'll come it's been and allot them and so.
If it'll get there which is phenomenal so culprits irate Alley a thank you so much street for stopping by thank you and have a great weekend everybody be well.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Nine things Facebook vows to do to help combat election interference

I would assure the steps that were taken to protect election integrity and make sure that FaceBook is a force for democracy.
And while the amount problematic content that we found so far remains relatively small.
And he attempted interference is a serious issue.
So you're dying thing it's that we're going to be working on over the next few months first.
We are actively working with the US government on its ongoing investigations into Russian interference second.
We will continue our own investigation.
Into what happened on FaceBook in this election third.
Going forward and maybe the most important steps we're taking is we're going to make political advertising more transparent.
Fourth.
We will strengthen our own ad review process for political.
We are increasing our investment in security and specifically in the election integrity.
Sixth.
We will expand our partnerships with election commissions around the world seven.
We will increase sharing of threat information with other technology and security companies.
We are working proactively.
To strengthen the democratic process finally.
We've been working to ensure the integrity of the German elections this we.
From taking action against.
Thousands of fake accounts are partnering with public authorities that the federal office for information security team sharing security practices with the candidates and parties.
We're also examining the activity of accounts we've removed and we've not yet found similar type.
Interference effort in Germany.
And this is incredibly important and we've been focused on this for a while.
Now with the same time.
It's important not to lose sight.
Some of the more straightforward and in larger ways that FaceBook please role in elections and these effects operated much larger scales of a hundred times or a thousand times bigger than what we're discussing here.
In 2016.
People billions and billions of interactions and open discussions on FaceBook that they have never happened before offline.
Candidates had direct channels to communicate with tens of millions of citizens.
And campaign spent tens of millions organizing.
An advertising online to get their messages out further.
We organized get out the vote efforts helped as many as two million people registered to vote who might not have voted under its.
Many these dynamics were new in this election.
And at a much larger scale then had ever seen before history adamant.
And they were much larger in scale than any of the interference that we found.
We will continue working with the government to understand the full extent Russian interference.
And we will do our part not only to ensure the integrity of free and fair elections around the world.
But also to give everyone a voice it to be a force for good and democracy everywhere.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Women accuse Google of discrimination against female employees

We turn to a major new lawsuit for women at Google claiming g@nder discrimination.
Saying the company pays men more than women and gives women fewer opportunities.
Our chief business correspondent Rebecca Jarvis is here with the story.
Good morning, Rebecca.
Good morning, Michael.
Yes, that's rye of the three women have tied the lawsuit accusing Google of discriminating against female employees by systematically paying them lower compensation than Google pays to male employees performing substantiallily similar work.
Essentially it is saying they're underpaying them denying them promotion opportunities and they want to make it a class action suit covering all women who worked at Google within the last four years.
And a spokesperson for Google telling me they disagree with the central allegations and that the company has extensive systems to place -- to ensure that we pay fairly.
The department of labor is also investigating Google's hiring practices.
This is not the end.
We'll continue to hear about this.
When is this going to stop?
The more people talk about this, the more it's exposed if it is, in fact happening, the more change we can make.
We can hope.
Yes, absolutely.
Yes, we can.
All right.
Thanks, guys.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Silicon Valley CEO says she dyes her hair brown to be taken seriously

All right, switching gear now to a story about one CEO's strategy to help her get ahead in silicon valley.
She says she dyed her hair brown to be taken more seriously in the tech world.
ABC's Rebecca Jarvis has more.
All right, why are we in Oakland?
Eileen Carrey is a successful CEO in silicon valley known for co-founding glassbreakers, a diversity and inclusion opportunity software company.
This morning it's not her top tech that has everyone talking.
It's her hair.
Made the decision based on research to change my perception in a way so that it improved the likelihood of, you know, being taken more seriously as a leader, as opposed to maybe a sexual object.
Reporter: One of her secrets to getting ahead, proactively fighting the blond stereotype.
Going from this to this.
When I first started the company I I was given stress from a friend who just broke down and plain and simple terms about perception, how I would be perceived.
Reporter: While running her company as a blond in a male dominated workforce she feared her hair color made it less likely she would be taken seriously by potential investors.
I kept getting comments about, it's so up pressive that you're so young and you started this company like I was 23 but I'm 31.
So I dyed my hair.
I wanted to appear a little less sexy.
Reporter: Karen Shackleford says this feeling is common in the workplace.
There are research study has show women who dress more femininely, wear more jewelry, look more attractive are less likely to be hired for managerial positions.
She said she heard plenty of stories like her own and not just in silicon valley.
That's something that happens all over America in our school, in our offices, in our government.
So this is a phenomenon that does not affect me but all of us.
Indeed.
So great to have Rebecca and editor in chief of "Marie Claire" with us.
I know you have a podcast called no limits.
How does this story compare to all you've seen in the tech world.
A podcast Ann has been on and want you on soon, Lara.
We are hearing this everywhere.
Fundamentally an issue with women trying to be heard, that desire to be seen as something more than a sex object and to be taken seriously and that's really what's happening here.
It takes different forms, but women all over the workfce are trying to be heard and taken seriously.
And, Anne, this really is about more than hair, isn't it?
This is a larger conversation.
Well, yeah, I think there are two things at play.
One silicon valley definitely has a sexism problem and that has got to change.
But secondly women no matter where we work are going to be judged on our appearance more harshly than men and you have to play that game.
Do I think you need to change the color of your hair, absolutely not.
If that gives you confidence to walk in a room and own it then I say go for it.
I'll ask you, Rebecca.
You talked to so many powerful women.
What advice do you have to women who want to get ahead, specifically in the tech world?
I think one really simple and straightforward piece of advice that I heard from a top female CEO in silicon valley is to speak up once a day in a meeting.
And that's something that you can make a commitment to yourself and do.
Just say, every day once a day I am going to speak up in a meeting.
I'm going to make it comfortable for myself, because it does get more comfortable the more that you do it and the more you talk, the more you're heard.
You think you'll be heard loud and clear, blond or brunette?
Absolutely.
Just carry yourself with confidence.
I love that, I mean at the end of the day that is ulth they what it's all about, we hope.
Really great conversation you guys.
Thank you so much.
Coming up, everybody, the

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Now Playing: $24 million winner claims prize with 2 days left

Now Playing: Most online puppy ads are scams, report says

Now Playing: 'Shark Tank' star Kevin O'Leary shares 2 quick financial tips

Now Playing: Walmart tests out a new grocery delivery service

Now Playing: Bridgewater hedge fund manager Ray Dalio talks investing, leadership

Now Playing: Nine things Facebook vows to do to help combat election interference

Now Playing: Women accuse Google of discrimination against female employees

Now Playing: Silicon Valley CEO says she dyes her hair brown to be taken seriously

Now Playing: Florida Irma evacuee wins $10K in NC lottery

Now Playing: Hurricane Irma will likely be costliest storm in U.S. history

Now Playing: Barry's Bootcamp CEO shares top career lessons

Now Playing: Harvey triggers major spike in gas prices nationwide

Now Playing: Harvey has caused an instant spike in gas prices nationwide

Now Playing: Amazon and Whole Foods slash grocery prices

Now Playing: Gas prices expected to rise as Hurricane Harvey passes over oil refineries

Now Playing: Massachusetts woman quits job after $758.7M Powerball win

Now Playing: Superior outdoor products made in America

Now Playing: Johnson and Johnson ordered to pay $417M to one woman over cancer claims

Now Playing: Woman wins $1.6 million on Vegas airport slot machine
Transcript for Hurricane Irma will likely be costliest storm in U.S. history

That is a scene in Miami right now.
100-mile-an-hour winds.
You see the palm trees swaying.
That is not the worst of the storm.
That's Miami right now.
Miami police waning officers are sheltered in place.
They're not able to respond to anyone in trouble.
We're going the talk more with with chief business and economics reporter Rebecca Jarvis.
The mayor doesn't know what the damage will be like.
We know lit cost a lot.
If the estimates are right, George, this will be the costliest storm in U.S. History.
Hurricane Irma now potentially going to cost $200 billion.
Back to back with hurricane Harvey, which could cost as much as $180 billion.
Back to back two of the most expensive storms in history.
Greater than Katrina, which cost $160 billion.
You have to think about the area this storm is tracing.
Some of the most populated areas.
8 1/2 million properties in potential risk.
The crops.
Florida is a place we get Orange juice from.
A number of produce products.
$1.2 billion in crop damage is estimated right now.
Gnat ongoing issue, the fact that there are major gasoline out outages.
The fourth largest shipping port in the country is shut down.
Getting back to business is going to take a long time.
That's even though the biggest city?
The state, Miami, getting hit hard by wind.
But spared the worst.
Spared the worst.
But you have this all up and down the west coast now.
Gasoline outannals.
People have rushed to get out of town.
As a result of this storm.
But still, you have very likely going to see huge, huge economic implications from the storm.
They could really expand into the national economy.
It could show up in the gdp figures going forward as well.
Nat ewe dowd, ymatthew dowd, you were advising George Bush in the hurricane Katrina aftermath.
Many people forget that hurricane Katrina horribly tragic, three weeks later, wee had hurricane Rita.
We had two major hurricanes.
When you look back, the lessons learned from people by Katrina.
And two, how important the likely action and local decisionmaking and local authority is from the city to the state.
The two governors, governor Abbott and Scott, have both responded well.
The city officials have been all over this pip think secondarily, the president's response.
I have to say, mother nature doesn't dwiscriminate and is not partisan.
They expect our leaders not the be partisan.
President trump has emphasized supporting the local officials.
He has.
Absolutely.
He's been on task.
I think in the midst of this when he made the deal on the debt ceiling and FEMA funding, he did it in a bipartisan way.
In the midst of the tragedy, this is the best week of the president's Prez zen si.
Your dad is there.
He's 83.
In his closet with mattresses.
Holed up.
E H knows he'll be there for the next 12, 24 hours.
A long day ahead.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Barry's Bootcamp CEO shares top career lessons

You started working out you said early on with fairy.
And you move your way up.
Inside of the company to CEO which I really admire the idea of learning the whole business before you get to that top plea in the company he.
What are some of the most important lessons you learned along the way.
I think for me it's been about.
I never really started out my career theories.
You see.
It wasn't this.
It was about.
It got to get it where.
It is.
So much how they.
It was about Natalie.
We're.
Hugh B will also be.
I you.
And else people.
Which is essentially.
Total fantasy.
What I hear what you love something first of all passion is so important to being an evangelist it actually and really caring about it not speaking at not being like some outside of its like oh yeah I love this thing but actually don't really.
But then once you're in it and you're experiencing it you.
Really understand it and you know how it works and packets to the execution part you can appreciate.
If you make a change in fact of the company you can appreciate.
What all of the people inside of the company working are gonna respond to that changed life.
And you're expanding a lot now I read is at 39.
Locations one hour 41 might be.
Four one by the end of this year and you're expanding I read Stockholm in the line.
Yet we we just.
I'm curious internationally.
Our people is nuts about working out as they are in the days to go it's hard it did and.
Definitely not me.
It appears like a pop star break.
I'm targeting and seeking to manage it can we get influence some oh.
Oh my eyes.
I don't think that we had.
There are until.
Oh my Angel but at times do.
And he can attest how fun it is time yeah.
Party in the lighting gas sexy in there's definitely won't like.
Performance element to it that people are connecting it.
Internationally regardless.
Intense exercise is.
Stockholm was super massive people when I did my influences.
15% of the people that well when you.
That's that's the term of those.
That at least at twelve point zero when you're damaged twenty.
It's twelve miles an hour.
Wow you know that's article driving yet but they're being you know by sitting there writing and I let.
Hands.
London these symptoms.
In Dubai.
Pastor is.
Dubai is interesting a lot of B kind of fitness brands from the US and they're and second location after new York and LA.
Is due by them.
It's it seems like it's a market that a lot of people want to be and why do you think that is.
And there are a lot of acts that swimming.
American and you walk and been to divide I have I actually have visited a friend of mine with there it's really isn't walker.
The city and you see.
Peak American concepts like restaurants case that two locations.
So it's definitely a place that says.
There.
What would be your number one tip to people out there who want to start a workout regiment.
But they're afraid.
And I think about it I was deeply.
I think when you can make working social.
It just as fun if you running next to someone other areas are outside and having a hard time if something that.
Mara choose something that you really enjoy it because then you'll want to go back but enjoyment is relative because when I am very class I'm having fun.
Yeah but I feel so home good afterwards.
And I feel so strong and so empowered and I see the results but that's what keeps me coming back so what ever your motivation is do something that makes you feel good that you're not like dragging yourself there and eating it.
Because then you're just you're it you're not and keep it out.
And for I talked a lot of people I'm like an evangelist pretty bad but I love berries and that I talked a lot of people about an I'm not ready yet and it I would before I was.
When I might first there is class literally the instructor was joking.
When he said take your inclined to 15% and out like this is really funny and then everywhere rallies are I was like wait they're serious about this.
So I was not ready I wasn't in shape but I went and got through it kept going that's what gets you instincts and that's what I was told it was just comic the bandit.
And was people always say it.
Varies I didn't.
That you weren't like super eight I don't worry about jobs there and me.
And you.
Should.
Well and I very much and it's it's your instructor when they know which are there's there's started.
Is it that these two.
And they're just.
The other misconception that you haven't met but because of the boot camp at some weakening the Alley you.
And quietly cute lady peace is comrade faster it's not like like everybody in the same we're all struggling together and the instructors are really supportive.
No it doesn't drill sergeant.
By its board when it comes to you eat up that it right from the customers while employees.
Leadership alliance use your instructors.
To me and hide people that.
Our or or out there was watching right now we liked commencement without high.
Cardona and a lot of them think they are governed positive off them.
Is inspirational and this is what people that the news that those.
That's true they desperation.
But I believe that you were.
As a after values in place to make sure that we especially this level you and higher in people.
We understand there's very it is and why.
Six two decades.
And a lot of have to do treat.
William treatment.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Harvey triggers major spike in gas prices nationwide

Next tonight, the big spike in gas prices heading into the last weekend of summer vacation.
Here's Rebecca Jarvis.
Reporter: Tonight, gasoline prices surging.
The national average for a gallon of regular is now $2.55, up 50 cents.
In Dallas, what looks like a parking lot is really the endless line for gas, and many pumps there already out.
Harvey affecting more than 20% of America's refining.
And major pipelines that ship fuel have been stopped or slowed.
But tonight these tankers refueling those stations emptied out by panic after the storm.
Analysts expect prices to jump three to five cents a day before backing up in mid-september.
Rebecca, thank you.
There's still much more ahead on "World news tonight" this Friday.
Handcuffed at the hospital.
Outrage after video shows a

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Harvey has caused an instant spike in gas prices nationwide

Next tonight, the devastation in Texas causing an instant spike in gas prices nationwide.
The largest refinery in the U.S. Shutting down.
Drivers already paying more for gas, heading into the last weekend of summer.
Here's ABC's chief business correspondent, Rebecca Jarvis.
Reporter: Tonight with much of the country's energy complex underwater, the ripple effect.
From coast to coast, gasoline prices rising and set to spike further.
Gasbuddy predicting the national average for a gallon of gas now $2.43 will increase 15 to 25 cents in coming weeks.
It's less money in my pocket.
Reporter: The storm shutting down nearly a quarter of U.S.
Refining capacity.
This Chevron plant in Baytown, Texas, inundated.
15 gulf coast refineries, including motiva, the largest in the country now shuttered.
Tom, they are changing these prices at this pump as we speak.
Hiking them and this price spike is expected to last another two to three weeks, Tom.
So many with road trips planned ahead.
All right, rebaek ka.
Thank you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Sonic says there's been some "unusual activity" on credit cards used at some of its restaurants.
The fast food chain said in a statement that its credit card processor told them about the incident last week and that it's now "working to understand the nature and scope of this issue."
It did not disclose how many credit cards were potentially involved in the incident or when the incident took place.
There are more than 3,500 Sonic restaurants in 44 states, according to the company's website.
Sonic said that it is working with third-party forensic experts and law enforcement officials on the incident.
The potential breach at Sonic was initially reported by Krebs on Security.
Sonic, based in Oklahoma City, is not the first restaurant operator to deal with such issues.
Last year Wendy's announced that hackers were able to steal customers' credit and debit card information at more than 1,000 of its U.S. locations.
Wendy's said at the time that the hackers were able to obtain card numbers, names, expiration dates and codes on the card.
Some customers' cards were used to make fraudulent purchases at other stores.
Sonic Corp.'s stock dropped $1.04, or 4.2 percent, to $23.55 in Wednesday morning trading.
U.S. stock indexes are slightly higher Wednesday as banks rise along with bond yields, but utilities and other big-dividend stocks tumble.
Smaller companies are climbing as investors review tax cuts proposed by President Donald Trump and congressional Republicans, and technology companies continue to recover some of their recent losses.
Athletic gear giant Nike is falling as investors are concerned about its U.S. business.
KEEPING SCORE: The Standard & Poor's 500 index added 2 points, or 0.1 percent, to 2,499 as of 10:50 a.m. Eastern time.
The Dow Jones industrial average was unchanged at 22,283.
The Nasdaq composite advanced 35 points, or 0.6 percent, to 6,415.
The Russell 2000 index, which is made up of smaller-company stocks, continued to set records as it gained 6 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,463.
FED FOCUS: Investors bet that interest rates will keep rising.
Tuesday afternoon, Fed Chair Janet Yellen said the central bank will be careful not to raise interest rates too slowly even though inflation has long been weaker than the Fed expects.
Investors currently think the Fed will raise rates again in December, and Yellen and other policymakers say they plan to raise rates several more times in 2018.
The yield on the 2-year Treasury note rose to 1.47 percent from 1.45 percent.
The yield on the 10-year note climbed to 2.30 percent from 2.24 percent.
That helped banks, as higher interest rates mean they can charge more to lend money.
Bank of America picked up 56 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $25.38 and Citigroup rose $1.41, or 2 percent, to $72.35.
Companies that pay big dividends, including real estate investment trusts and utility companies, took steep losses.
Rising bond yields made government bonds a more appealing investment to investors seeking income.
CURRENCIES: The dollar also got stronger.
It rose to 112.82 yen from 112.17 yen.
The euro fell to $1.1733 from $1.1798.
LACES UNTIED: Shoe and athletic gear maker Nike said sales in the U.S. remained weak in its first fiscal quarter and steep discounts continued to affect its business.
While its earnings and revenue were better than analysts expected, analysts chalked much of that up to lower taxes, stock repurchases, and spending cuts.
Nike stock lost $2.02, or 3.8 percent, to $51.68.
Other sporting goods companies also slumped.
Under Armour gave up 30 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $16.24.
Retailer Dick's Sporting Goods shed 42 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $27.19 and Foot Locker fell 48 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $34.64.
TAX PLANS: President Donald Trump and congressional Republicans are proposing a tax plan that cuts taxes for individuals and corporations, reduces the number of personal tax brackets, and nearly doubles the standard deduction used by most Americans.
The top tax rate for corporations would be cut to 25 percent from 35 percent.
But with months of negotiations likely ahead and many key details missing, it's not clear what kind of plan might ultimately pass.
TWITTER TEST: Twitter climbed after the company said it will test a 280-character limit for tweets.
That's double the current limit, which has existed for the social media company's entire history.
The stock gained 27 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $16.86.
Other technology companies also climbed.
Chipmaker Micron Technology had a better quarter than investors expected, and its stock rose $2.77, or 8.1 percent, to $36.95.
Facebook climbed $2.34, or 1.4 percent, to $166.55 and Apple picked up $1.33 to $154.47.
POWERING DOWN: Utility company Scana dropped after state police in South Carolina said they are looking into "potential criminality" by the company after a nuclear plant construction project was shut down after some $10 billion had already been spent.
Scana said it will cooperate fully with the inquiry.
Its stock sank $3.30, or 5.9 percent, to $52.27.
Scana's South Carolina Electric & Gas unit and partner Santee Cooper canceled the project in July after contractor Westinghouse filed for bankruptcy.
LOSING ITS LUSTER: Gold fell to its lowest in a month.
The metal's price declined $11.10 to $1,290.60 an ounce.
Two weeks ago gold was at a 12-month high, but it's fallen sharply since then.
OIL: Benchmark U.S. crude rose 11 cents to $51.99 a barrel in the New York while Brent crude, the standard for international oil prices, fell 33 cents to $57.59 a barrel in London.
OVERSEAS: The FTSE 100 index in Britain rose 0.4 percent while Germany's DAX rose 0.6 percent.
The CAC 40 in France added 0.4 percent.
Japan's Nikkei 225 fell 0.3 percent and South Korea's Kospi dipped less than 0.1 percent.
Hong Kong's Hang Seng index rose 0.5 percent.
AP Markets Writer Marley Jay can be reached at http://twitter.com/MarleyJayAP His work can be found at https://apnews.com/search/marley%20jay
Fewer people signed contracts to buy homes in August, marking the fifth decline in the past six months.
The 2.6 percent fall continues to reflect the worsening shortage nationwide of homes being listed for sale.
The National Association of Realtors said that its pending home sales index fell to 106.3 in August from 109.1 in July.
It's the index's lowest point since a 106.1 reading in January of 2016 and 2.6 percent lower than a year ago.
Pending sales contracts are a barometer of future purchases.
Sales are typically completed a month or two after a contract is signed

An economist for the Realtors is forecasting existing home sales for 2017 to be around 5.44 million, about 0.2 percent lower than last year's 5.45 million.
The Realtors said Hurricanes Harvey and Irma had a particularly negative impact in the South, where pending sales contracts declined 7.8 percent.
Pending sales fell 3.1 percent in the Northeast, but ticked up slightly in the Midwest and West.
Homebuyers are caught in a period of rising home values, a limited selection of properties on the market and a shortage of savings.
A new survey released Wednesday by the real estate firm Zillow found that only 39 percent of millennial buyers this year are able to make the recommended 20 percent down payment  and those that do are more likely to rely on money from family and friends.
This trails older buyers who often already own homes and can afford a larger down payment.
The median price paid for a home by millennials, ages 18 to 37, was approximately $200,394.
Their median down payment was roughly $21,750  a down payment of less than 11 percent.
As millennials  who account for most first-time buyers  are searching for a home to buy, more than 60 percent are simultaneously looking at rentals.
This suggests that a decent number of younger buyers are either getting outbid or not finding properties in their desired neighborhood.
Zillow found that 37 percent of millennial buyers went over their budget, much higher than 29 percent of all buyers.
Because the millennials are such a large population, Zillow chief economist Svenja Gudell expects they'll keep attempting to purchase homes despite any frustrations.
"We're going to see continuous strong demand," she said.
AP Economics Writer Josh Boak contributed to this report.
Finnish energy group Fortum is offering to buy all the shares in German utility Uniper in an 8.05 billion-euro ($9.5 billion) deal that aims to boost Fortum's gas, hydroelectric and nuclear assets.
Fortum is offering to buy the 46.65 percent stake that Germany's E.ON holds and the rest of the shares for 22 euros each.
It said Wednesday that the two power groups would complement each other and that it aims to be a "reliable and stable" shareholder.
Uniper's management says it sees Fortum's bid as hostile and doubts the companies fit strategically.
Under German takeover rules, Fortum  Finland's largest power company with major operations in the Nordic countries and Russia  is compelled to bid for all of Uniper's shares once it takes on a stake of over 30 percent.
Fortum CEO Pekka Lundmark denied the hostile intentions and stressed the company  in which the Finnish government has a stake of just over 50 percent  would be happy to buy E.ON's stake only, without taking full ownership of Uniper.
He said the offer should be seen "as an investment into a company in whose management and strategy we believe in."
Fortum is not aware of rivaling bids for E.ON shares, Lundmark said.
E.ON has until early 2018 to decide whether to sell its stake.
The German utility is unable to dispose the shares earlier for tax reasons.
Uniper operates around 38 gigawatts of power plants in Europe and Russia and had sales of around 67 billion euros in 2016, compared with Fortum's revenue of 3.6 billion euros the same year.
The Equifax breach is reminding small business owners that they may be vulnerable to cybercriminals.
Companies that provide security and other technology services to small businesses say they've had an increase in calls from customers since Equifax revealed that the personal information of 143 million Americans had been exposed.
The hack galvanized some owners into dealing with long-delayed issues.
"A customer called me today wanting to replace their one remaining XP computer," says Bob Herman, owner of IT Tropolis, a tech service company in Fountain Valley, California.
Microsoft stopped providing security updates for XP models three and a half years ago.
Small businesses often lag behind big companies in data security, not believing they might be targets.
But 61 percent of the victims of breaches in 2016 were businesses with fewer than 1,000 employees, according to a Verizon survey.
And experts say small companies are being targeted more because they don't have the sophisticated defenses that big corporations do.
Still, Equifax says its systems were breached after it failed to correctly install a software patch designed to eliminate a vulnerability.
Applying patches as soon as they're available and watching for new ones are critical for a company to protect itself, experts say.
But many small business owners, sidetracked by other issues, don't pay enough attention, says Diana Burley, a George Washington University professor whose expertise is internet security.
Many don't have staffers or vendors to monitor technology, and no plan to improve their security.
"When you're in a crisis situation is not the time to develop a plan," Burley says.
Small businesses can be harmed by cybercriminals in a variety of ways.
Here are some companies' experiences:

FAULTY APPS

Towne & Country Building Inspection downloaded several apps to enhance the Google calendar the company uses for customer appointments.
In July, owner Scot McLean noticed some glitches  an appointment might disappear, or show up on another day.
The problems persisted for about a week, stopped and started again.
Then suddenly, four weeks of appointments vanished.
McLean's staffer in charge of technology determined that the apps were vulnerable to hacking, and someone was able to log in and erase the appointments.
"The hack cost us thousands of dollars in lost revenue," McLean says.
Towne & Country was able to recreate part of the calendar, but most of the appointments were lost.
Some frustrated customers didn't rebook, turning instead to other inspection services.
The Bayside, Wisconsin company eliminated all apps as well as plugins that added features.
It changed its passwords and set up two-step verification, which requires a password and a single-use numerical code to log in.
A WRONG CLICK

Reuben Kats clicked on an attachment in an email nearly a year ago and soon found all the files of his website design business were encrypted and unable to be used.
Grabresults.com was the victim of ransomware, or malicious software that hackers plant, hoping to extort money by holding a user's files hostage until they're paid a ransom.
Kats avoided paying because the Los Angeles-based company's files were backed up on a secure online service.
Although infected computers can be fixed by returning them to factory condition, erasing all contaminated files, he chose to buy a new one.
Kats realizes the culprit email had a phony address.
Now he checks before he clicks.
"I make sure all emails are sent from the actual company domain name," Kats says.
OVERWHELMED BY MALWARE

Hackers got into the website of Hyannis Whale Watcher Cruises in March 2016, just a month before the company's seasonal boat trips were scheduled to start.
When website manager Melissa Marchand called the company that hosts the website, she learned there were 100,000 pages of pornography on the site.
This was a crisis: 90 percent of the Barnstable, Massachusetts, company's tickets are sold online.
Marchand contacted a computer security company that began removing malware from the website, a process that took two days.
By the third day, the cruise company was selling tickets again.
Marchand estimates it took six weeks for the number of visitors to the site to return to normal.
"Fortunately, it was very early in the season.
If this had happened in July, it would have been hundreds of thousands of dollars in revenue lost," she says.
The security firm now monitors the site, watching for signs of another attack.
HACKING FALLOUT

Small businesses can become victims after hackers invade larger retailers like Target or Staples and steal credit card data, or if information is stolen in other ways.
A customer brought a laptop to New York Computer Help in Manhattan for a screen repair and paid with a credit card, signing on an electronic signature pad.
That night, owner Joe Silverman got a text from someone else asking why his card had been charged.
The card was counterfeit, and Silverman was out $650.
"His credit card, although still in his own wallet, was somehow ripped off by this fake customer," Silverman says.
Silverman says he's careful with emails that likely have phishing links or that ask if he'll do cash transactions, a hallmark of fraudsters.
His website has safeguards against credit card crime.
After this incident  not the first time he's been a fraud victim  Silverman and his staff are monitoring transactions closely, including sending test charges to card issuers to be sure a card is legitimate.
INSIDE JOB

Managers at Boomsourcing got a notification via one of its software programs in May that someone was trying to access its data without authorization.
None of the business software company's information was stolen, but "it woke us up to the vulnerabilities that a small business has," manager David Hyde says.
The Lehi, Utah-based company conducted what Hyde calls "our own NCIS work" using social media to figure out an employee was responsible, trying to use the information to do his own deals.
Boomsourcing now uses software that tracks the movements of everyone using its systems.
"If they were to download something they weren't supposed to, we would know," Hyde says.
Follow Joyce Rosenberg at www.twitter.com/JoyceMRosenberg.
Her work can be found here: https://apnews.com/search/joyce%20rosenberg
The Equifax breach is reminding small business owners that they may be vulnerable to cybercriminals.
Companies that provide security and other technology services to small businesses say they've had an increase in calls from customers since Equifax revealed on Sept. 7 that the personal information of 143 million Americans had been exposed.
The hack galvanized some owners into dealing with long-delayed issues.
Small businesses often lag behind big companies in data security, not believing they might be targets.
But 61 percent of the victims of breaches in 2016 were businesses with fewer than 1,000 employees, according to a Verizon survey.
And experts say small companies are being targeted more because they don't have the sophisticated defenses that big corporations do.
The Equifax breach is reminding small business owners that they may be vulnerable to cybercriminals.
Companies that provide security and other technology services to small businesses say they've had an increase in calls from customers since Equifax revealed on Sept. 7 that the personal information of 143 million Americans had been exposed.
The hack galvanized some owners into dealing with long-delayed issues.
Small businesses often lag behind big companies in data security, not believing they might be targets.
But 61 percent of the victims of breaches in 2016 were businesses with fewer than 1,000 employees, according to a Verizon survey.
And experts say small companies are being targeted more because they don't have the sophisticated defenses that big corporations do.
The Equifax breach is reminding small business owners that they may be vulnerable to cybercriminals.
Companies that provide security and other technology services to small businesses say they've had an increase in calls from customers since Equifax revealed on Sept. 7 that the personal information of 143 million Americans had been exposed.
The hack galvanized some owners into dealing with long-delayed issues.
Small businesses often lag behind big companies in data security, not believing they might be targets.
But 61 percent of the victims of breaches in 2016 were businesses with fewer than 1,000 employees, according to a Verizon survey.
And experts say small companies are being targeted more because they don't have the sophisticated defenses that big corporations do.
Image copyright Getty Images

Ryanair will cancel another 18,000 flights between November and March, affecting the travel plans of another 400,000 passengers.
It will fly 25 fewer planes to cut the risk of further flight cancellations.
More than 30 routes will be suspended this winter, including Stansted to Edinburgh and Glasgow, Gatwick to Belfast and Newcastle to Faro.
Earlier this month the Irish airline cancelled up to 50 flights a day through to the end of October.
Those passengers affected by the move will be offered alternative flights or full refunds.
They will also be offered vouchers of 40 euro (35) one way or 80 euros return towards on alternative flights on top of any refund.
Ryanair said passengers affected by the cancellations up to the end of next month have been sent emails advising them of the flight changes.
The airline has blamed the summer cancellations on "messing up" pilot holiday rosters and again denied it had a pilot shortage.
"In the current year less than 100 of over 2,000 captains left Ryanair (mainly retirements or to long haul airlines) and less than 160 F.O's [first officers] who have mainly left to join long haul airlines," it said.
It added that it had more than 2,500 pilots on a waiting list and had offered jobs to over 650 new pilots who would be employed by May next year.
In addititon, ten days after saying it was preparing to buy the Italian carrier Alitalia, it today announced that it was dropping its bid in order to "eliminate all management distractions".
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary

Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary said: "From today, there will be no more rostering-related flight cancellations this winter or in summer 2018.
"Slower growth this winter will create lots of spare aircraft and crews, which will allow us to manage the exceptional volumes of annual leave we committed to delivering in the nine months to December 2017."
In total 34 routes across Europe will be suspended during the winter months.
The airline also said the total cost of the flight cancellations to date was less 25m euros (22m) and expected the cost of the free flight vouchers would be less than 22m.
It said that it has had to scale back its original forecast for passenger numbers in the year to March 2018 from 131m to 129m but it said that it would not affect profitability.
Ryanair's share price rose 3.5% in London, bringing the rise this year to 17%.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Top Republicans have been meeting for months to thrash out a plan to overhaul the US tax code

Top Republicans say they are united in a push to lower taxes, as a longstanding effort to overhaul the US tax code takes centre stage.
Among the planned changes is a cut in the corporation tax rate from 35% to 20%.
US President Donald Trump is scheduled to deliver a speech to muster support for the effort later on Wednesday.
Lawmakers are looking for a major policy win, after repeated failure to reform healthcare.
The Trump administration had earlier pledged to achieve tax reform taxes before the end of August.
But it has been tough to reach agreement on even the broad goals released on Wednesday.
Democrats are opposed to cuts for the wealthy and some conservatives are worried that cuts will add to the deficit.
A so-called "Big Six" team of negotiators have spent months meeting to thrash out a plan, with the aim of simplifying the code and cutting rates, especially for businesses.
The ideas shared on Wednesday are familiar from earlier Republican proposals and are similar to principles the Trump administration has backed since the presidential campaign.
On the business side, the negotiators have agreed to reduce the corporate tax rate from 35% to 20%, change the tax on overseas profits and create a top 25% rate for small businesses and firms organised as "pass-through entities" such as limited liability corporations.
For families, negotiators plan to nearly double the amount individuals and families can deduct, increase the tax credit for children and introduce a new tax credit for dependents who are not children, such as the elderly or disabled.
They will also eliminate a tax on inheritance.
Trump dines with Democrats to talk tax

Trump: 'It's time' for tax reform - Trump

US tax reform: Tough task for Trump

Lawmakers plan to preserve tax incentives for homeownership, retirement, education, as well as research and development.
Administration officials said they intend to eliminate many tax benefits, including exemptions for state and local taxes, but those are not specified.
Many details still need to be worked out.
For example, lawmakers want to slim the number of tax brackets to three - with filers charged at a 12%, 25% or 35% rate - but what incomes would qualify for each rate remains to be seen.
Currently, the bottom rate is 10% and the top rate is close to 40%.
White House officials rejected the idea that the plan would increase the tax burden on lower income families, citing the increased amount households will be able to deduct.
They also said that the framework leaves Congress the flexibility to maintain a fourth, higher rate on the wealthiest households.
Lawmakers are also grappling with how to pay for the tax cuts.
The Trump administration maintains that closing loopholes will help offset revenue loss.
They also say the reform will spur growth, but many economists say it is unlikely to be enough to close the gap, adding to the US debt, which has passed $20 trillion.
Image copyright Getty Images

Three million savers in final-salary pension schemes only have a 50/50 chance of receiving the payouts they were promised, a study has concluded.
Some employers were under pressure to meet their pension obligations, the Pensions and Lifetime Savings Association (PLSA) said.
High-profile cases such as the BHS collapse have highlighted concerns over the future of workplace pensions.
The PLSA said one solution could be the pooling of resources into "superfunds".
This would allow relatively small companies to pay a fee to transfer final-salary pensions to a larger fund - which would then have bigger investment opportunities.
A standard deal for pension scheme members could see some receive better final payouts as a result, but others could see their expected income deteriorate.
But pensions consultant John Ralfe described the superfund plan as "outrageous".
He said there was "no crisis in defined benefit pensions, so there is no need for crisis measures" owing to a well-funded lifeboat system for collapsed schemes.
"The PSLA is trying to undermine all the safeguards put in place for members since the 2004 Pensions Act.
It wants to turn the clock back to the days when companies could walk away from their pensions without fully funding them," he said.
The in-depth study by the PLSA, the trade body for the industry, considered the outlook for final-salary pensions used by 11 million people in the UK.
Employers have pumped in an extra 120bn in special payments to try to plug financial holes in these schemes, but the combined deficit of the UK's 6,000 schemes remains at 400bn.
The majority of final-salary schemes had a sustainable model for meeting future payouts, the PLSA said.
However, three million members of schemes faced a more uncertain financial future, it concluded.
'Opportunity'

Ashok Gupta, who chaired the PLSA review, said there was a "real possibility" of a collapse for more high-profile pension schemes, and so the report's many proposals needed to be considered.
"The industry and government need to grasp this opportunity and tackle serious flaws that threaten the security of people's retirement," he said.
A spokesman for the Department for Work and Pensions said: "Most pension schemes are operating well and the vast majority of members can expect to receive their benefits in full.
But in the wake of several high profile cases, there may be more that needs to be done to support the sector.
"As we look at options such as the consolidation of pension schemes, we will continue to work with the industry, employers and scheme members to see what more can be done to increase confidence in defined benefit pensions."
Retirement delay

Pension saving has become automatic for most workers, owing to the government's automatic enrolment scheme, but there are still concerns about a lack of saving across all age groups.
Insurer Aviva estimated that two million older workers had dependent children or parents, and a third expected to delay retirement with others likely to reduce pension saving owing to the financial pressures involved.
"Many over-50s are shouldering the responsibility of putting their families' financial needs ahead of their own for a prolonged period of time," said Lindsey Rix, of Aviva.
Aviva's survey did find that many older workers were staying on in employment owing to job satisfaction rather than financial need.
Image copyright Getty Images

Wolfgang Schuble, Germany's long-standing pro-austerity finance minister, is set to leave the post.
He has been finance minister for the past eight years, gaining a reputation for toughness in eurozone negotiations with Greece.
Mr Schuble, 75, will be nominated for the post of speaker of Germany's parliament, the Bundestag.
Following this week's election, the Free Democrats have indicated they would like to run the finance ministry.
The FDP is a potential coalition partner for Angela Merkel's Christian Democratic Union, which remained the largest party in parliament following Sunday's vote, but is not in a position to govern alone.
The deputy leader of the FDP, Wolfgang Kubicki, welcomed the plan to nominate Mr Schuble for Bundestag president as a sign of Chancellor Angela Merkel's openness to a three-way coalition with the FDP and the Greens.
But he suggested the FDP would want to make some changes to German economic policy: "In case the FDP becomes part of the government, a new fiscal policy will be of central importance."
Mr Kubicki and FDP party leader Christian Lindner have both been mentioned as possible candidates for the finance ministry post.
During the eurozone crisis, Mr Schuble won respect, especially at home in Germany, for refusing to ease the austerity imposed on southern European countries in exchange for bailout funds.
But in Greece his name became a byword for intransigence and harshness.
Mr Schuble is the country's longest standing member of parliament having first been elected in 1972.
Image copyright AFP Image caption About 10,000 people work in the UK's sugar beet supply chain

The UK's sugar beet industry is looking to ramp up production, as European Union quotas come to an end this week after nearly 50 years.
For the first time since 1968 the UK can produce and sell as much sugar around the world as it would like.
The end of the quota also means that French, German and other EU producers can sell more sugar into the UK.
Experts predict that could result in lower prices - but the British industry is confident it can compete.
What will the sugar changes mean?
Two years ago Paul Kenward, the boss of British Sugar, had a problem.
Under the EU's quota he was only allowed to sell 1.056 million tonnes of sugar beet, but it had been a particularly bumper harvest and he'd produced more than 1.4 million tonnes.
Image copyright British Sugar Image caption British Sugar has four factories in the UK, including this one at Newark, Nottinghamshire

"Customers wanted to buy from me, but I wasn't allowed by European Union rules to sell it," Mr Kenward tells the BBC.
"We had to store it for two years - that was very expensive."
From this weekend, those limits will come to an end after years of lobbying by the UK government.
The 3,500 British farmers that grow beet - which looks like a big turnip - and British Sugar, which is the sole processor of British grown sugar beet, see the change as a huge opportunity.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption UK beets account for approximately 60% of British sugar consumption

British Sugar - which also makes Silver Spoon sugar - plans to step up production immediately and is looking to sell 1.4 million tonnes next year, up from 900,000 this year.
It's also planning to export sugar to the world market for the first time in at least a decade.
"The UK is one of the most efficient producers worldwide," says Jane Clark, who farms sugar beet in Lincolnshire.
"It should put us in a good place to be competitive."
The changes are not linked to Brexit - and the industry is hopeful it will still be able to compete after the UK leaves the EU.
How big is the UK sugar beet industry?
There are nearly 10,000 workers in the industry's UK supply chain

The UK consumes 2 million tonnes of sugar a year

60% of that comes from UK beets

Another 15% comes from EU beets and 25% from imported sugar cane

Source: British Sugar

How will it affect sugar prices?
Analysts say the increased supply of sugar - not just from the UK, but from other major EU producers - should ultimately lead to lower prices.
At the moment, white sugar sells for about 500 euros (440) a tonne in the EU, compared with just over 300 euros a tonne on the international market, according to EU figures.
Image copyright Science Photo Library Image caption Analysts say the price of sugar could fall - but it'll have little impact on sponge cakes

Prices will become more volatile after the end of the quota, says Carlos Mera, a sugar analyst at Rabobank.
"Whether consumers benefit or not, I think they probably will."
However, the effect on sugary products, like cola and sponge cake, will be more muted, because the cost of sugar only makes up a small part of the overall price of those goods.
For example, if the cost of sugar fell by 40%, that might lead to a saving of less than 1% on the price of a 342 gram Victoria sponge cake.
So far, though, sugar supply contracts in the EU are still being agreed at a significant premium to international prices, says Callum Macpherson, head of commodities at financial services firm Investec.
Will the industry be able to cope?
Although the end of the quota enables UK firms to sell more sugar abroad, it will also allow EU producers to sell more in the UK.
Image copyright AFP Image caption French beet producers will also be able to produce more and could target the UK

When EU milk quotas were scrapped in 2015, it flooded the market with oversupply and put some dairy farmers out of business.
So will beet farmers suffer a similar fate?
"I don't think there are any sugar beet producers in the country that just grow sugar beet," says Jane Clark.
"We all grow a range of crops, whether it be wheat, barley, or oats."
Mr Kenward says the industry learnt a lot from what happened with milk.
"We prepared for this for the last few decades, and can change production more easily than dairy farmers," he says.
There's also the uncertainty around what trade terms will be in place after Brexit.
British Sugar says that if the EU starts charging tariffs on its sugar beet after Brexit, the firm would ask the UK government to charge the same tariff on EU beet.
As for trade with the rest of the world, British Sugar accepts that dropping sugar tariffs might be part of the deals struck with other countries.
But it's still confident it can compete, as the UK is "the most cost-efficient producer in the world", Mr Kenward says.
Is there a difference between sugar beet and sugar cane?
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Brazil, Thailand and India are the world's biggest sugar cane producers

When it comes to flavour, "no", says beet farmer Jane Clark.
The climate and soil conditions in the UK, France, Germany, and the Netherlands suit sugar beet.
Its production took off after an English blockade during the Napoleonic wars hit French cane-sugar imports.
In comparison, sugar cane tends to grow in the tropics, with Brazil, Thailand and India the main producers.
"You can refine sugar down to various levels," Jane says.
"White sugar is the most refined, your brown sugar is less refined."
Ultimately, it's all the same chemical formulation.
"So sugar is sugar," she says.
Image copyright Getty Images

Scania has been fined 880m euros (771m) by the European Commission for colluding with five other truckmakers over prices and emissions costs.
The other five companies were given a record 2.9bn euro fine in July 2016 but Scania held out and would not co-operate with the investigation.
The EU antitrust regulators ruled that Scania, owned by Volkswagen, and the other companies colluded for 14 years.
Volkswagen's Man, Daimler, Volvo, Iveco and DAF admitted to taking part.
Man avoided a fine after blowing the whistle on the cartel and the others had their fines cut by 10% for pleading guilty.
The companies had been accused of colluding to fix prices and avoid the costs of stricter pollution rules around emissions by passing them on to consumers.
Between them, they produce nine out of every 10 medium and heavy trucks sold in Europe.
'Cosy'

"Instead of colluding on pricing, the truck manufacturers should have been competing against each other - also on environmental improvements," European Commission competition chief Margrethe Vestager said in a statement.
The Commission added that the plan was formed at a secret meeting between senior managers in a "cosy" Brussels hotel.
It also stressed that the investigation did not reveal any links between the cartel and allegations of carmakers cheating on emissions control testing.
Scania's fine is the second highest in the case, behind the 1.01bn euro penalty given to Daimler.
The company has denied any wrongdoing and because it did not agree to settle the case with the others, it now has the option of challenging regulators in court.
Image copyright EOne

Peppa Pig is becoming a big hit in China where sales of her toys, clothes and home furnishings are on the up.
The cartoon pig's popularity in the country has been driven by nationwide showings of her TV programme and a big social media presence.
Peppa has attracted 34 billion views on the different Chinese platforms since the brand launched in 2015.
The toy is also bringing in increased revenue in the US for Entertainment One, which owns the brand.
Peppa successfully hit the big screen this year, with Peppa Pig: My First Cinema Experience taking 3.6m in the UK and A$2.2m (1.3m) in Australia and New Zealand.
The group, which also owns film business eOne and a television arm, said in a trading update on Wednesday that all divisions were performing as expected.
However, box office revenues from films it distributes had nearly halved because of a lack of new releases.
Movies due to be released before the end of 2017, including Steven Spielberg-directed film The Post, Paddington 2 and A Bad Moms Christmas, should reverse that trend, EOne said.
Image copyright EONE

Andrew Carley, head of global licensing at Entertainment One, told the BBC that the biggest selling item in China had been the traditional story books.
Since April 2016, they have sold 18 million copies and he said: "The numbers in China are unlike anything we've seen in any other territory.
"The sales have blossomed probably as a result of that need or want of parents to educate children in English."
The next country to welcome Peppa is set to be Japan, with Mr Carley adding that then the pig would be truly global.
Local touch

Analyst Tom Harrington, of Enders Analysis, said the character's success in China was "amazing".
He told the BBC: "China is a massive market but is very difficult for Western media companies to get into for two reasons.
"One is censorship, and the other is that you can't operate there without an alliance with a Chinese business.
"However, children's content is very transferable between cultures, especially animation which is very easy to dub over to make it look local."
He said the most popular TV shows in any country are always locally made.
For example, only one foreign programme made it into the top 150 shows watched in the UK last year.
Shares in EOne fell 1.4% to 254.5p, valuing the company at 1.1bn, but the stock has risen more than a fifth over the past 12 months.
Image copyright BT Image caption BT attracted a high level of complaints despite promising users "faster wi-fi connections" than rivals

BT has continued its run as the UK's most complained about home broadband provider, according to data from the regulator Ofcom.
The company attracted 28 complaints per 100,000 customers for the service across the months of April to June.
That meant BT was ranked worst out of the UK's major six providers for the fifth quarter in a row, despite the figure being lower than for the previous period.
Its pay-TV service also struggled.
BT TV attracted 13 complaints per 100,000 subscribers over the three months.
The service has now had more complaints than its rivals in every Ofcom report since mid-2015.
The industry average figures for the second quarter were:

21 complaints per 100,000 customers for broadband

four complaints per 100,000 customers for pay TV

Ofcom's data represents only complaints consumers have chosen to escalate by referring them to the watchdog - and not those sent to individual firms or separate ombudsmen - so probably underplay the level of discontent.
The body does not publish details about individual cases.
But it said that common grievances against BT had included:

technical faults

billing issues

the way it had handled complaints made to its own staff

"We apologise to customers we've let down," said BT in a statement.
"We care about service and we've invested heavily to make improvements, including hiring 2,200 extra people, which is helping us answer calls more quickly than ever before - over eight out of 10 are now being answered in the UK and Ireland."
Ofcom's consumer policy chief did not refer to BT by name in her summary, but appeared to signal she wanted further action.
"We expect providers, particularly those who have been consistently under-performing, to make service quality and complaints handling their number one priority," said Jane Rumble.
One market-watcher noted that BT's broadband service shared the same infrastructure - provided by its Openreach division - as Sky and EE, which were the two least complained about providers.
"The data we have from speed tests indicates BT isn't giving people a worse experience than others," said Andrew Ferguson from the ThinkBroadband news website.
"That suggests it's not got a broadband problem so much as a customer-service one - including the length of time it leaves people on hold... or worse when people try to call support, it takes them four or five times to get through."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Former CEO Osman Shahenshah, one of two Afren executives facing charges

Two former executives of the collapsed oil firm Afren are facing money laundering and fraud charges.
Former chief executive Osman Shahenshah and chief operating officer Shahid Ullah will appear at Westminster Magistrates Court on Wednesday.
It follows a two-year investigation by the Serious Fraud Office (SFO).
Afren, once valued on the FTSE 250 index at 2.6bn, collapsed in 2015 after the oil price slump and the failure of an Iraqi Kurdistan project.
The two men face four charges related to payments they received through secret companies that were linked to 298m ($400m) worth of Nigerian business deals.
It is being claimed that the alleged fraud led to the collapse of Afren which is now in administration.
Mr Shahenshah - who was sacked along with three other directors over gross misconduct in 2014 - and Mr Ullah will be charged with two counts of fraud by abuse of position, and two separate counts of money laundering.
The SFO said that Afren's administrators AlixPartners are seeking damages worth more than 500m from Mr Shahenshah, Mr Ullah and one of their Nigerian associates, in related civil claims.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption About 1,000 jobs in Belfast are linked to the C-Series

Boeing's trade dispute with Bombardier "could jeopardise" its defence contracts with the UK government, the UK's defence secretary has warned.
Sir Michael Fallon made the comments after the US opted to impose a tax on the C-Series jet made by Bombardier.
The proposed 220% import tariff could threaten Bombardier jobs in Belfast.
Rival Boeing had complained that Bombardier had received unfair state subsidies from the UK and Canada.
It claimed these subsidies helped the firm win a major order.
In 2016, Boeing won a contract to supply 50 Apache helicopters to the Army.
Bombardier said it would fight the "absurd" ruling.
The firm is one of Northern Ireland's biggest employers.
Sir Michael said during a visit to Belfast that "Boeing stands to gain from British defence spending" but that "this kind of behaviour could jeopardise our future relationship" with the firm.
"We don't want to do that.
Boeing is an important investor in the United Kingdom; an important employer in the United Kingdom.
"But we would prefer this kind of dispute to be settled on a negotiated basis and we will be redoubling our efforts with the Canadian government to bring about a negotiated settlement."
Image caption Theresa May said she was bitterly disappointed by the US ruling

Prime Minster Theresa May said she was "bitterly disappointed" over the US Department of Commerce proposal to impose the tax.
She said the UK would work with Bombardier to protect "vital" jobs.
The UK government and trade unions fear the imposition of tariffs could make the Canadian firm question whether to remain in Northern Ireland, where it employs 4,100 of its 28,000-strong workforce.
Image caption The proposed tariff could threaten jobs at Bombardier in Belfast

The ruling damaged the global aerospace industry and was "frankly not what we would expect of a long-term partner to the UK", said a UK government spokesman, while emphasising this was just the first step in a lengthy process.
About 1,000 jobs are linked to the C-Series, the wings of which are made at a purpose-built 520m factory at Queen's Island in Belfast.
Image copyright AFP/Getty Image caption Boeing said the dispute was about "maintaining a level playing field"

The programme is not just important to Bombardier jobs in Belfast, but also to 15 smaller aerospace firms in Northern Ireland - and dozens more across the UK - which make components for the wings.
The US Department of Commerce ruling, which could triple the cost of a C-Series aircraft sold into the United States, could potentially jeopardise a major order placed last year from US airline Delta - a $5.6bn (4.15bn) deal for up to 125 of the jets.
Bombardier said the decision was "divorced from the reality about the financing of multibillion-dollar aircraft programmes".
The Canadian firm said Boeing was seeking to use US trade laws "to stifle competition".
'Things could get worse'

Julian O'Neill, Northern Ireland Business Correspondent

The outcome was predicted - but not the severity of the penalty.
The tariff could triple the cost of C-Series aircraft in the US, effectively killing the market for Bombardier.
It also puts a major order with Delta Airlines at risk - and things could get worse before they get better.
Washington's Department of Commerce is due to make a second tariff ruling on 5 October.
But a more important date is next February when the US International Trade Commission will either uphold the penalty or remove it.
This was always the focus for Bombardier and its allies.
Bombardier said it had created a "superior aircraft" that is more efficient and comfortable but Boeing was trying to prevent "US passengers from realising these benefits, irrespective of the harm that it would cause to the US aerospace industry and the cost to airlines and consumers".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Sir Jeffrey Donaldson tells Today that Bombardier tariff may have 'devastating' economic consequences

But Boeing said the dispute was about "maintaining a level playing field", and said its aim was to make sure that "aerospace companies abide by trade agreements".
Delta, however, said there was no risk to US businesses as neither Boeing nor any other US firm produced 100-110 seat aircraft to compete with the C-Series.
US Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross said one reason for the tariff ruling was Bombardier's failure to cooperate with the investigation.
Skip Twitter post 2 by @Number10gov The Government will continue to work with the company to protect vital jobs for Northern Ireland.
2/2  UK Prime Minister (@Number10gov) September 27, 2017 Report

"The evidence we have to rely on is evidence not coming from Bombardier but evidence being proposed by Boeing and other outside parties," he said.
The US government was "not necessarily" targeting Bombardier's Northern Ireland factory, he said, but added: "If you're building wings for a plane that doesn't get built, that's a problem."
Government funding

Analysts say that the ruling will increase tensions between the US government and Canada and the UK, both countries have deals to supply military aircraft worth billions of dollars with Boeing.
The UK government and Northern Ireland Executive pledged to invest almost 135m in the establishment of the C-Series manufacturing site.
The programme received 750m from Quebec's provincial government in 2015 when its fortunes appeared to be ailing.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Critics say Boeing's complaints are unfounded as it does not make 100-110 seat aircrafts with which the C-Series would compete

On Wednesday, Quebec Premier Philippe Couillard called the tariffs "unfair" and an attack on the Canadian province where Bombardier has its headquarters and employs more than 17,000 people.
"Quebec has been attacked.
And Quebec will resist," he told journalists, adding that that Quebec remained committed to manufacturing the C-Series.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau threatened to cancel a Boeing order from the US

"Boeing may have won the battle but the war is far from over," he said.
In 2016, Quebec invested US$1bn in the passenger jet.
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has threatened to cancel the purchase of 18 Boeing Super Hornet jet fighters from the US in retaliation.
Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland said on Tuesday that the government was disappointed in the decision.
The International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers - a machinists union - called the countervailing duty "a protectionist and dangerous measure for the stability of the aerospace industry".
In Northern Ireland, CBI director Angela McGowan said the ruling put an important driver of Northern Ireland's economic growth at risk.
Northern Ireland has effectively been without a devolved government for nine months, and Ms McGowan said the situation reinforced the need for a return of a power-sharing executive.
"With jobs and future prosperity in the region being put at risk by decisions made far away from Belfast, we need a devolved government that can speak up for and champion the needs of the local workers and businesses most affected," she said.
A French property scheme is a "slow-burning catastrophe" for British investors who are trapped in costly contracts, an MEP has said.
The leaseback schemes were aimed at encouraging people to buy properties in tourist areas, then rent them out.
It was supposed to offer the owners a guaranteed return, but many say they are trapped in costly contracts with management companies.
MEP Daniel Dalton says the French government should help these people.
French leaseback schemes were first introduced in the 1980s as a way to increase investment in tourist destinations.
They were heavily marketed in the UK and Ireland in the mid-2000s as a risk-free investment.
Buyers were offered tax breaks if they signed long-term deals, typically nine years, with management companies to let the properties out to tourists.
The owners were meant to be paid a guaranteed amount of money raised from this rent, but this was often not the case.
Further problems come when people try to cancel the management deal at the end of the contract - one woman said she was faced with a bill off 22,000 euros (19,290).
This bill is compensation the management company can ask for under French commercial law to cover the loss of earnings they say they will suffer as a consequence of the contract being ended.
Case study

Pauline Hitchcock and husband Mick bought a French leaseback property near the coast in 2005.
She had inherited some money, and the property was in an area that the family had camped in when their children were young.
She saw the system as a way to buy a holiday home that otherwise seemed financially out of reach.
"It wasn't to make profits.
It was so that it covered its running costs and it gave us holidays every year," she says.
At the end of the nine-year management contract she was keen to end her relationship with the leaseback companies.
"We were told we have to pay in the region of 22,000 euros.
It doesn't make sense.
We do not have 22,000 euros."
Pauline says she had no idea she could be liable for compensation.
"We made sure when we were buying the villa that we had crossed every 't' and dotted every 'i'.
We had gone through the contract not only with our notaire [legal representative], but we had gone independently to another lawyer that dealt with French law."
She is one of the investors who is now seeking legal action.
There are no comprehensive figures for the number of people having problems with the scheme.
Around 2,000 people, mainly from the UK and Ireland, signed a petition calling for help from the EU in dealing with the problems around French leaseback schemes.
Mr Dalton has heard from dozens of people in similar situations.
"In one case, someone actually had to sell their house in the UK.
Many people have bought these houses as investments, they've been marketed to them as risk-free investments.
They're certainly not risk-free investments.
And the problem is they can't get out of the scheme," he said.
Image caption Daniel Dalton MEP has been campaigning within the European Parliament for more protection for consumers

Mr Dalton has been campaigning within the European Parliament for more protection for consumers.
He thinks some of the contracts could be illegal under EU law, particularly under the mis-selling of properties directive.
He has asked the UK Competition and Markets Authority to investigate the issue.
They have now contacted their French counterpart, which he hopes will start moving the process forward.
A man who spoke to the Victoria Derbyshire programme on condition of anonymity, who sold leaseback schemes in the mid-2000s, says that many of the brokers selling the schemes in the UK at that time didn't understand French law well enough to advise prospective buyers properly.
He stopped selling new properties when his own clients started reporting problems with management companies.
Heavy price

Guillaume Barlet-Batada, an expert in French property law for London-based firm Cubism Law, says there are ways for leaseback owners to get out of their contracts, but it's not easy and can be expensive.
"There are various ways to get out.
Some co-owners have gathered and tried to do that themselves.
From what I've seen it seemed to be successful.
Liberating for some but it's a heavy price on time because you have to be prepared to deal with it yourself," he said.
French leaseback deals are still available online now, but there is more consumer protection because of a change in the law introduced for buyers after 2009.
The BBC contacted the French government for comment but did not receive a reply.
Watch the Victoria Derbyshire programme on weekdays between 09:00 and 11:00 on BBC Two and the BBC News channel.
Image copyright Boohoo Image caption Boohoo sold 262m of clothes and other items in the last six months

Online fashion pioneer Boohoo has delivered a bumper rise in sales and profits and raised already-ambitious forecasts for future growth.
Its fast-fashion strategy has seen young consumers flock to its sites, including recently acquired brands Nasty Gal and PrettyLittleThing.
Revenues doubled and profits jumped 41% in the six months to 31 August, compared with the previous year.
However, the rise did not stop Boohoo's share price falling about 10%.
Although the company upgraded its forecasts on future sales revenue, a failure to also raise profit guidance led to a sell-off of the shares, which have soared in value this year.
"The strong performance in the first half-year and our expectations for the second half have given us confidence to raise guidance for the full year," said joint chief executives Mahmud Kamani and Carol Kane in a statement.
The Manchester-based company has seen sales and its share price soar in recent years, as younger customers have been won over by its relatively low prices on up-to-date fashion.
Profit doubt

However, the shares slipped almost 10% in late morning trading, valuing the company at 2.7bn.
The stock has risen 142% in the past 12 months.
Analysts said that its recent strong performance and over-optimistic expectations had led to the share price fall on Wednesday.
Adam Tomlinson, research analyst at Liberum, said that although Boohoo forecast higher revenues, there was no further upgrade on profit guidance.
"While top line momentum continues to be very strong, management is increasing investment into the product, pricing and marketing to strengthen the platform for future growth", he said

Boohoo's business model, known as "test and repeat", is built around market-testing a wide range of items on its site.
The ones that prove popular are then reordered.
By manufacturing half of its products in the UK the firm says its can offer typical turnaround times for new styles of about four to six weeks.
Rather than rely on traditional marketing, Boohoo focuses on social media influencers, bloggers, student campus tours and events such as shoots with reality TV stars from the hit summer show Love Island, to win over its target market of 16-30 year olds.
'Diversity'

This year Boohoo acquired another fast-fashion brand aimed at younger consumers, PrettyLittleThing, which was founded by Mr Kamani's son, and offers "hottest fashions and celebrity looks".
It also bought the intellectual property of US retailer Nasty Gal, which filed for bankruptcy in February.
Mr Kamani and Ms Kane said that PrettyLittleThing was gaining recognition amongst target consumers both in the UK and internationally, adding that boohooMan was also performing well.
"The integration of the two new brands has been successful, adding diversity to our business," they said.
Active customer numbers were up 29% over the year, the company added.
Image copyright EasyJet Image caption An EasyJet picture shows where the engines might be in an electrically powered plane

EasyJet is backing plans to develop commercial passenger aircraft powered by electric batteries instead of conventional aero engines.
The airline wants the proposed planes to fly passengers on its short-haul routes, possibly within 10-20 years.
The prototype is going to be developed by a new US firm called Wright Electric, which has already built a two-seat battery-powered plane.
The new, larger plane would have a range of 335 miles, the companies said.
EasyJet said this meant it would be able to cover popular routes such as London to Paris, Brussels, Amsterdam, Cologne, Glasgow and Edinburgh.
EasyJet's possible involvement was first revealed in March 2017.
Carolyn McCall, the chief executive of EasyJet, said she was now confident that such a plane, possibly carrying 220 passengers, would eventually fly.
"We share an ambition with Wright Electric for a more sustainable aviation industry," she said.
"Just as we have seen with the automotive industry, the aviation industry will be looking to electric technology to reduce our impact on the environment."
Image copyright Reuters Image caption EasyJet wants the proposed planes to fly passengers on its short-haul routes

Wright Electric was only founded last year in the US.
It said EasyJet's support was a "powerful validation" of its plans that would involve developing "new energy storage chemistries" that are lighter than conventional batteries.
The firms argued that if successful, this new technology would lead to a further big cut in the amount of fuel being burned in the air and on the ground, a big cut in emissions, and would also lead to much quieter aircraft.
Wright Electric explained that the new batteries it is hoping to invent would power the propellers or fans of aeroplane engines.
However the motors would be put inside a plane's wings, rather than be slung underneath them.
That, it said, would make the planes more aerodynamic and would cut drag.
The batteries, the firm suggested, would be situated in the main body of the aircraft.
A company spokesman told the BBC that the technology was changing rapidly and that its preferred option was for a combination of lithium ion and aluminium air batteries, which would need to be one and half to two times as powerful as existing versions.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Government advisers say ageing housing stock is the biggest obstacle to meeting the UK's climate change targets

Homeowners who sell draughty homes could be fined, a report has suggested.
Economic consultancy Frontier Economics says the money raised could underpin government funding for insulating the homes of the least wealthy homeowners.
It is the most radical idea in the report, which also urges interest-free loans and tax and stamp duty rebates for people to insulate their homes.
Frontier warns the government will miss its targets on cutting carbon emissions unless it stops energy waste in homes.
The government said it is considering many options as part of its long-delayed Clean Growth Plan, which is expected soon.
Frontier's report notes that government advisers say ageing housing stock is the biggest obstacle to meeting the UK's climate change targets.
Improving homes also gives a boost to health and comfort and keeps bills down.
But renovating homes is often an expensive hassle.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The Green Deal offered households the opportunity to insulate their homes

The report says that, following the collapse of the ill-fated Green Deal home loan scheme, ministers must find new ways of incentivising people to take on improvement work.
The Green Deal was criticised for offering loans at 7% interest.
The report suggests instead offering equity loans at lower than the standard mortgage rate, to be paid back when owners die or move house.
Another idea is to charge differential stamp duty depending on the level of insulation in the property.
Traditionally the Treasury has been unwilling to fund improvements that will increase the value of people's homes, but it's under pressure to be creative to solve the problem.
Infrastructure priority

The report also suggests that people should be tempted to invest in home improvements through a "salary sacrifice" scheme - where part of a person's salary goes towards energy efficient renovation, and they then save on the associated income tax.
Frontier Economics' report was funded by a coalition of groups concerned about housing stock - including the architects' body Riba; the green thinktank e3g; the Institution of Civil Engineers and the electricity group Energy UK.
They all want housing treated as an infrastructure priority.
"It's the package of measures that matters," a spokesman, Ed Matthew, told BBC News.
"We want to stop the government's incremental, short-termist, approach - and treat this like the major infrastructure programme it is after all every home must be zero carbon within 30 years."
Follow Roger on Twitter @rharrabin
Video

The EU will soon lift quotas on sugar beet production.
That could mean a big hike in the production of sugar beet in Britain and a fall in its price.
But Britain's 3,500 sugar beet farmers could face a big fall in the price per tonne of their crop.
Video

The cassava plant is a vital source of income in East Africa, but it can be vulnerable to disease.
However, a new portable DNA sequencer is helping farmers to avoid infections that could jeopardise their crops.
Video

US firm Planet Labs makes satellites you could hold in your hands, and has more in orbit than anyone else.
"We thought that we could do space a little bit differently," says Planet Labs' co-founder, Will Marshall.
Read the full article at The Disruptors - The new space race

Producer: Adrienne Murray; Cameraman: Hans Schauerte
Video

The holiday ritual of sending a postcard home from a trip is dying, a closing UK postcard publisher says.
We ask people whether they agree.
'If we soften up, our readers will go'

Known as the Private Eye of the tech world The Register loves to satirise industry giants - and it's paying off.
Video

Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn told Andrew Marr he supported workers asking for a decent public sector pay rise.
He did not say whether he would join them on the picket line.
Video

A family-run hardware shop has been celebrating 150 years in business.
Goldings in Bedford High Street, first opened its doors in 1867 and has survived the launch of DIY superstores and the rise of internet shopping.
Its former owner, 71-year-old Victor Warner, who has been working there since 1961, has been sharing his secrets to business success.
Video

As the global population grows and more of us are eating meat and fish, there are concerns that the world's resources can't keep up.
Currently, many farmed animals and fish are fed fishmeal, which is made of wild-caught fish.
These could be threatened if demand for fishmeal intensifies.
Jason Drew is an entrepreneur and environmentalist.
He has found a way to turn food waste into a maggot-based animal feed, which could offer a sustainable alternative.
His company has just won the Global Champion Award from The Food Chain on BBC World Service.
Image caption Karren Brady, Lord Sugar and Claude Littner all return for the new season

The 13th series of the Apprentice begins next week, more than a decade after the show launched on BBC Two.
It remains hugely popular, but how much life does the series have left?
The chances are you've probably never watched the German version of The Apprentice.
Or the Spanish one.
Or the Finnish, Turkish, Dutch, Belgian or Norwegian ones.
They all existed, most of them in the mid-noughties when the format was at its peak, but nearly all have now been wound down.
In the UK, however, the show remains stubbornly popular.
The finals of the most recent three seasons all attracted more than seven million viewers, according to ratings body Barb.
"That's because of us three," jokes Lord Sugar, referring to himself and sidekicks Karren Brady and Claude Littner.
Image caption Eighteen new candidates will appear in the new series

To be fair, he's probably not wrong - the personalities are a key part of the show, and Lord Sugar doesn't show any signs of wanting to pack it in any time soon.
"I'm very happy to continue doing it," he says when asked by BBC News.
"As far as I'm concerned, I'm up for it, before they put me in the coffin."
He continues: "I think we're all proud of the brand really.
You refer to it failing in other markets - we've kept it going, and we've kept it going because it has life in it, and we are passionate about the brand.
"We're making sure that it's not just good entertainment, but actually delivers the right message.
Image caption These three don't half enjoy going outside on a cloudy day

"But of course the decision for new series remains and has always remained with the BBC.
We're ready and waiting but it's up to the BBC to decide whether they wish to continue."
Well, we asked the BBC, who said: "The Apprentice is a much loved BBC One show and we are committed to it on the channel.
An announcement about future series will be made in due course."
Future director general?
Lord Sugar also honed in on one key aspect of the British version of the show that he thinks gave it a new lease of life.
"We changed the format after series six, to one of going into business with people," he explained.
The first few series of the show saw an apprentice hired by Lord Sugar to work in his company, but now he invests 250,000 in the winner's business idea.
"That has become an absolute success as far as I'm concerned," he said.
Image caption Last year's winner Alana Spencer makes a guest appearance in the first episode

"You see the [former winners], they're all making money, and for me it's quite exciting to really start from the grass roots again."
(He's referring to cameo appearances in the first episode of the new series from Ricky Martin, Leah Totton, Mark Wright, Alana Spencer and Tom Pellereau, who explain to the candidates what winning the show did for them.)
Lord Sugar has previously suggested that the BBC should broadcast a spin-off show focusing on the winners' stories, but said on Tuesday: "There's a problem with compliance, something to do with promoting business or something like that which means the BBC can't do it."
Not one to shy away from giving his opinion on basically anything, Lord Sugar continued to share his thoughts about what he would do if he was the BBC's director general.
Image caption The Voice used to air on the BBC but later moved to ITV

"I've had a lot of thoughts about the BBC.
They're a great organisation, we pay 12 a month, and when you compare that to other things you pay for your phone, internet, Sky television or whatever, the value you get at the BBC is tremendous," he said.
Sounds like he wouldn't be opposed to becoming DG, right?
"The problem is..."

Oh, wait.
"The problem is that too much politics goes on, to suppress them in spending a bit of money, because it's always, 'Oh well it's licence fee payers' money'.
"What this leads to is them losing the ability to pay the going price for programmes like The Voice or Bake Off, and I think that's wrong."
Image caption Bake Off 1.0 (pre moving to Channel 4)

He continues: "Hands are tied internally because people are frightened to spend money.
Now, having said all that, if I was in charge of the BBC, I would find that money.
"And the only way you find that money is to get rid of some of the money which I would consider to be wasted within the organisation.
"But I do feel for the BBC because you invent a programme and then someone else steals it from you, and you can't compete because your hands are tied because of policy.
"And you've got some idiot in Parliament moaning about the late and great Sir Bruce Forsyth, for example, having his birthday cake paid for by licence fee payers' money, and that is absolutely outrageous.
"So would I like the job?
Well I wouldn't mind the job, but I doubt very much whether they'll give it to me," he laughs, "because whoever did give it to me would end up without a job."
Image caption Lord Sugar will appear on GMB with Piers Morgan next week

Ahead of the new series airing next Wednesday, Lord Sugar plans to appear on Good Morning Britain with his long-term nemesis Piers Morgan.
"Yes, I'll get my boxing gloves ready," he joked.
"[Piers] doesn't stop talking about how he won the American Apprentice now, it's so boring.
"You can see Susanna Reid yawning every time he brings it up, and every time he mentions what a good friend he is of [President] Trump, who incidentally hasn't spoken to him since he won the election."
Eeesh.
Probably a good idea to stock up on popcorn for that one.
The Apprentice begins on Wednesday 4 October at 21:00 BST on BBC One.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright United Biscuits

The number of Jaffa Cakes has been cut from 12 to 10 in the latest example of packaged food "shrinkflation".
The packs weigh 122 grams rather than 150 grams, but McVitie's has cut the recommended price from 1.15 to 99p.
Twin packs, which now have 20 cakes rather than 24, are now 1.89 rather than 2.19.
"These changes represent the same price per cake, however, pricing ultimately remains at the sole discretion of retailers," the firm said.
Tesco and Sainsbury were both selling a box of 10 for 1.
On online provider Ocado, the boxes were priced at 1.19.
A McVitie's spokesman added: "There is no change in the size, shape or weight of individual cakes in the McVitie's Jaffa Cake range."
That, of course, did not stop aficionados taking to Twitter to express their feelings about the "Jaffa quake".
However, others welcomed the move:

Skip Twitter post by @Amie_ee Im actually glad theyre making Jaffa Cake boxes smaller because now I can feel less guilty when I inevitably binge eat an entire box  Amie (@Amie_ee) September 26, 2017 Report

Earlier this year McVitie's reduced the size of its dark chocolate digestive biscuits from 332g to 300g - a 10% reduction.
It is far from the only company cutting the size of its products rather than raise prices following increases in costs.
In July, the Office for National Statistics said as many as 2,529 products had shrunk in size over the past five years, but were being sold for the same price.
As well as confectionery, these included toothpaste, orange juice and toilet roll.
Jaffa cakes were first produced by McVitie's in 1927.
Contrary to popular belief, the main flavouring in the jam insert is apricot, with an added note of tangerine oil, although they are named after the Jaffa orange.
The company was challenged by Her Majesty's Customs and Excise that a Jaffa cake was a biscuit and therefore subject to VAT.
McVitie's says on its website that it "successfully proved to the courts that a Jaffa cake is indeed a cake, and it is still VAT free to this day".
Image copyright Adam Bradford/Jordan Swain Image caption Business partners Adam Bradford (l) and Jordan Swain on a fact-finding mission in Wadi Rum, Jordan

A "greed is good" mentality no longer holds sway for the new generation of job candidates.
Instead, they want to join a firm that offers them a good quality of life, rather than just a healthy pay packet.
Londoner Adam Bradford and Californian Jordan Swain decided to set up their own business after struggling to find one which offered the right work-life balance.
The pair, who met on Instagram, have visited almost 30 cities on four continents to do research for Bradford Swain, their social enterprise consultancy.
Jordan says going it alone means they are able to work anywhere.
"We enjoy our ability to work from a cafe on a terrace in Morocco, from the beach in Kenya or from a hot-desk in central London if we need to," he says.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Many young workers want the opportunity to travel with their job

There are a growing number of people like Adam and Jordan who are happy to go it alone.
And many firms are offering additional perks to attract and keep staff.
But such extras aren't always as good as they appear.
"I have spoken to people whose companies provided amazing perks - meals, healthcare and even alcohol if they had a party at home," says Dr Sandi Mann, senior psychology lecturer at the University of Central Lancashire.
"The downside is that they feel owned by the company and like they are expected to devote their life to it.
They start to have less and less of a life 'outside' and work can become all consuming," she warns.
With that in mind, we took a look at some of the best ones.
Free holidays

Who?
Airbnb, Macildowie

Image copyright Macildowie Image caption Row Davies, a senior recruitment consultant at Macildowie, is living the high life on a free trip to the Grand Canyon

Airbnb, an accommodation rental website, gives its US employees a yearly allowance of up to $2,000 (1,500; 1,700 euros) to stay in any of its properties around the world.
The firm was voted the best company to work for in 2016 on employer review website Glassdoor, with the travel perk seen as one of the most attractive aspects.
Row Davies is a senior consultant at Midlands-based recruitment firm Macildowie, which also offers free holidays as an employee incentive.
She has won two trips to New York and four trips to Las Vegas as a reward for hitting targets.
Row says such holidays encourage employee loyalty: "After you've been on one trip you don't want to miss out in the future, so you feel like you need to work even harder to get onto the next one."
Unlimited paid holiday leave

Who?
Netflix, LinkedIn, Virgin Management

Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Some companies allow staff to take as much holiday as they want

Netflix pioneered the concept of unlimited holiday.
"Our vacation policy is take vacation.
We don't have any rules or forms around how many weeks per year," the firm says on its website.
Likewise, networking site LinkedIn offers its US staff unlimited discretionary time off, which it claims gives them "more flexibility and a sense of empowerment".
When Sir Richard Branson heard about the policy from his daughter Holly, he decided to follow suit.
Virgin Management - the investment and brand licensing part of his empire - brought in unlimited leave in 2014.
Sharron Pomells, people operations director at Virgin Management, said the decision had received "a great reaction" from staff.
But only a fraction of people who work for Virgin are in this division - 180 people - and it hasn't yet spread to other parts of the business.
Neither Virgin Management nor LinkedIn could provide figures of how many workers had taken up the perk.
And while unlimited holiday may sound incredible, the reality could be somewhat different.
Writing for the World Economic Forum, emotional intelligence expert Dr Travis Bradberry says: "Freedom gives people such a strong sense of ownership and accountability that, like business owners, many end up taking no vacation at all."
Egg Freezing

Who?
Apple and Facebook

Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Apple and Facebook offer to cover the cost of some fertility treatments

Apple and Facebook came up with a controversial solution to a notorious problem for tech companies - how to attract female workers to tech firms.
They offered to pay up to $20,000 (15,000) towards their US female workers storing eggs, if covered by their insurance plans.
"We want to empower women at Apple to do the best work of their lives as they care for loved ones and raise their families," Apple said in a statement in 2015.
Freezing their eggs is one way for a woman to potentially have children later in life, or keep their options open until they are ready.
The schemes attracted criticism when they became public, with some saying they put pressure on women to defer having a family.
And the success rate for egg freezing is not particularly high - in the UK, the pregnancy rate for transferring frozen embryos was 22.2% in 2014.
Bringing your dog to work

Who?
Lots of employers, including Google and Mars Petcare

Image copyright Hubble Image caption Hubble employee Varun with Darwin the Shih Tzu

It may not be ideal for cat lovers or allergy sufferers, but one boss says having a Shih Tzu in the office has had a "sensational" effect on his workforce.
"Judging by the figures, pets will be even more popular than things we generally see as workplace essentials, like showers, by 2018," says Agarwal Tushar, co-founder of digital office space platform Hubble.
Dogs are a regular fixture in the office for 8% of UK employees, according to research by Reed.co.uk.
Tech companies and pet-food firms are most likely to offer the perk.
Google is famously staffed by dog-lovers and the search engine even mentions the policy in its code of conduct, saying: "We like cats, but we're a dog company, so as a general rule we feel cats visiting our offices would be fairly stressed out."
However, employees have to check with their colleagues first before bringing in a canine companion.
Whether it's free holidays, time off or office dogs, the blurring between home and work life is a growing feature of many people's jobs.
But psychologists warn against the possible downsides too.
"Everyone needs to be off duty sometimes - downtime is essential," says Dr Sandi Mann.
Image copyright Getty Images

Pubs are calling time on "wasteful" plastic drinking straws, which campaigners say are used only once yet take centuries to decompose.
So is it time to refuse the straw and get used to sipping our drinks instead?
JD Wetherspoon is the latest pub to stop automatically putting straws in drinks, effective this week, saying eco-friendly paper straws will be offered in its 900 pubs by the end of the year.
"It's a waste," says Su Cacioppo, Wetherspoon's personnel and legal director.
"Personally I like a straw but a lot of people don't even want them."
Designer Vivienne Westwood recently backed an online campaign for people to refuse straws and start drinking from the glass - known as Refuse the Straw - which began in the US and is encouraging pubs and restaurants to follow suit.
What's the problem with plastic straws?
Image copyright Getty Images

Most straws are made from plastics such as polypropylene and polystyrene, which unless recycled take hundreds of years to decompose.
It means small plastic items like straws, coffee cup lids and plastic bottle tops are strewn in the ocean and on landfill sites - even though they may only have been used for the time it takes to finish a drink.
Ms Westwood's Facebook post, which warned that "the straw in your cocktail or coffee will be on this planet forever", has been shared nearly 300,000 times.
"Very little is recycled, and much ends up on the ocean," it read.
Wetherspoon, which hands out 70 million straws a year, says bar staff had complained about chucking vast quantities of used straws away during their shifts.
"This subject was coming up more and more often," says Ms Cacioppo.
Kate Dell, All Bar One's assistant marketing manager, a chain which gets through 4.7 million straws a year but has vowed to reduce its straw usage by one-third, says she is confident customers would be "happy to enjoy their drinks straw-free".
What should we be doing?
Image copyright Getty Images

Simon Ellin, chief executive of the UK Recycling Association, says "nobody would be bothered" if bartenders stopped automatically putting straws in drinks and it is free for companies to implement.
"I had a pint of soda water the other day and not only did they put two straws in it but a stirrer, and I asked why they had done that - I'd imagine most people wouldn't query it," he says.
Paper straws are another alternative to cut waste - although Wetherspoon's Ms Cacioppo says the business will face "extra costs" for introducing them and admits they "feel a tiny bit different - but I don't think it's a big deal".
But Mark Hall, commercial director at BusinessWaste.co.uk, says it is not enough for pubs to simply phase out straws - saying people should be expected to pay tax for their straws, similar to the 5p carrier bag charge.
"Why on earth do you need a straw in your gin and tonic anyway?"
he says.
"The industry can do something about it, but so can we as consumers - it's easy to say 'no straw please'."
Why are plastic straws so popular?
Image copyright Getty Images

From adding a flourish to a cocktail to apparently making a drink taste better, straws have been commonplace in almost every restaurant and bar in the UK for decades.
Rye grass straws were used for hundreds of years before the first old-style paper straw was patented in the US in 1888 by inventor Marvin Stone - which since the 1970s has gradually been replaced by plastic alternatives.
McDonald's has even claimed its Coca-Cola tastes better when drunk through one of its straws - which are slightly wider than in other fast food chains.
The chain, which hands out free straws with its drinks, and serves 3.5 million people in the UK every day, says it has invested in recycling units in its restaurants to cut waste.
"This includes our straws, which are made from recyclable plastic," a spokesman said.
Does using a straw protect my teeth?
Image copyright Getty Images

But what about the damage to your teeth?
Dentists say sipping through a straw can reduce the amount of liquid with which your teeth come in contact - potentially preventing tea and coffee stains, as well as erosion from fizzy drinks.
Experts have even advised Prosecco-lovers to drink the wine through a straw to protect their teeth from the high acid and sugar content.
But Dr Nigel Carter, chief executive of the Oral Health Foundation, says people can protect their teeth by having a drink during mealtimes rather than on its own.
"However, if we are to consume them outside of these times, using a straw really can help to reduce some of the damage," he says.
Image copyright World Bank Image caption The UN and World Bank warn millions of pupils are not learning even basic literacy and numeracy

Six out of 10 children and teenagers in the world are failing to reach basic levels of proficiency in learning, warns a hard-hitting report from the United Nations.
The UN describes the findings as "staggering" and representing a "learning crisis".
Much of the focus of international aid in education has been on the lack of access to schools, particularly in poorer countries in sub-Saharan Africa or in conflict zones.
But this new research from the Unesco Institute for Statistics warns of the lack of quality within schools - saying more than 600 million school-age children do not have basic skills in maths and reading.
Huge divide

In sub-Saharan Africa, the research suggests 88% of children and adolescents will enter adulthood without a basic proficiency in reading.
And in central and southern Asia, 81% are not reaching an adequate level in literacy.
The report warns any ambitions for social and economic progress will be stifled without a literate and numerate population.
Image copyright World Bank Image caption The quality of schools and teaching needs much more scrutiny, say the reports

In North America and Europe, only 14% of young people leave education at such a low level.
But, the UN research suggests, only 10% of the world's school-age children live in these more affluent, developed regions.
"Many of these children are not hidden or isolated from their governments and communities - they are sitting in classrooms," said Silvia Montoya, director of the Unesco Institute for Statistics.
She said the report was a "wake-up call for far greater investment in the quality of education".
This problem of "schooling without learning" was also highlighted by the World Bank in a report this week.
It warned that millions of young people in low- and middle-income countries were receiving an inadequate education that would leave them trapped in low-paid and insecure jobs.
Image copyright World Bank Image caption Pupils in South East Asia are among high achievers by global standards

The president of the World Bank, Jim Yong Kim, introducing the report, said the failures in education for so many represented "a moral and economic crisis".
Researchers warned of pupils in Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda and Nicaragua who after years in school were unable to do simple sums or read simple sentences.
A basic level of proficiency in primary school was reached by 99% of pupils in Japan, but by only 7% of pupils in Mali, they said.
There were also wide gulfs within countries.
At the end of primary school in Cameroon, only 5% of girls from the poorest families were at a level to continue with their education, compared with 76% of girls from wealthy families, the report said.
What's to blame?
The World Bank study examined the factors underlying such poor achievement:

It warned that in the poorest countries many pupils arrived at school in no condition to learn

Many had suffered from malnutrition and ill health, the World Bank said, and the deprivation and poverty of their home lives could mean they began school physically and mentally underdeveloped

There were also concerns about the quality of teaching, with too many teachers not being particularly well educated themselves

There was also a problem of teacher absenteeism in some countries in sub-Saharan Africa, which has been linked to teachers not being regularly paid

Image copyright World Bank Image caption Poorer countries need more testing in schools and not less, says the World Bank

The World Bank's chief economist, Paul Romer, said there had to be a more honest admission that for many children being in school did not mean worthwhile lessons.
He said progress would depend on recognising that "the facts about education reveal a painful truth".
Lack of testing

The report warned of a lack of scrutiny over standards and the absence of even basic information about pupil achievement.
While the debate in Western countries has been about excessive testing, the World Bank said that in poorer countries, there was "too little measurement of learning, not too much".
Image copyright UN Photo Image caption The problem of low achievement is worst in sub-Saharan Africa

But the researchers also pointed to countries that had made progress, such as South Korea and Vietnam.
And at the United Nations last week there were international pledges for greater investment in education.
"I have decided to set education as a top priority of French development and foreign policy," said French President Emmanuel Macron.
Former UK Prime Minister and UN education envoy Gordon Brown said he wanted the Global Partnership for Education, which channels aid to education projects, to have funds worth $2bn (1.5bn) by 2020.
The European Union announced that 8% of its humanitarian budget would be spent on education.
For children missing school because of the conflict in Syria, the Education Above All Foundation and Unicef, along with other charities, committed an extra $60m (45m).
"Funding our education goal will do far more than place a child at a desk.
It will unleash opportunity and hope," said Mr Brown.
More from Global education

Ideas for the Global education series?
Get in touch.
Image caption Matthew Barnes says Aldi's "contract" with customers is to have the lowest price in the market

Aldi may have seen its UK profits drop last year, but shoppers spent an extra 1bn there compared with 2016.
We meet the man driving the discount supermarket's rapid growth.
Aldi doesn't sell a very wide range of products so the bar is set high for any new one to make it to the shelves.
It's the UK chief executive Matthew Barnes who does the final test in the sleek tasting kitchens at its Atherstone HQ.
He not only personally approves every new product, but sets the price for it, too.
This forensic approach appears to be working.
Last year sales rose 13.5%.
It's the sort of growth that the big established players can only dream of these days.
Right now, it's opening more than one store a week with the aim of having a thousand stores by 2022.
And often in places which already have one Aldi, or sometimes even more.
Take Glascote, in Tamworth, Staffordshire, just down the road from its Warwickshire HQ.
There's an Aldi close to the station but the company recently opened a new one just a couple of miles away.
Says Mr Barnes: "Our first store has been there for more than ten years and was really over-trading.
It was really, really busy and we couldn't expand that store.
So, we opened this store down the road.
Meanwhile, sales at the first store have dropped a small amount.
But, overall sales in Tamworth are up more than 80% and that's absolutely the right thing on every level for us to do.
"More and more customers are doing their main shop in Aldi.
It gives us the confidence to invest in the UK because the potential for growth is fantastic," he adds.
Image caption Aldi is "a universally appealing supermarket," says Mr Barnes

Aldi, like its rival discounter Lidl, is a German business and privately owned so doesn't have to answer to shareholders or the city.
It also means that it doesn't have to disclose like-for-like sales as its rivals do.
This is the performance of stores that have been open for more than a year, which is the sales measure most closely watched by analysts, and some have questioned Aldi's underlying rate of growth.
But the boss is happy to keep rivals guessing and says he is more than content with the performance of the business: "We're delighted because 2016 was another record year for Aldi.
We managed to attract a further million customers through our doors in a year and those customers have come from all over the UK, from all age groups underlying our status of a universally appealing supermarket," he says.
Aldi stocks around 1,700 products, compared to the 20-30,000 items you find in a typical big supermarket.
And 94% of these are private label.
Not being beholden to big brands enables it to buy products more cheaply - passing on the savings to customers while still making decent margins.
The chain opened its first store in the UK in Stechford, Birmingham 20 years ago.
But it wasn't until 2008 that Aldi started to make headway when it decided to up the quality and range of its produce, enabling customers to do a full shop.
When the recession struck, Aldi and Lidl benefited as shoppers became more careful with their money.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Aldi is investing 1bn over the next two years to improve its stores

Opponents vent against Aldi's own label products where the packaging looks incredibly similar to the big household brands, and supermarkets have complained about its advertising tactics.
But that hasn't put off shoppers.
The big four supermarkets - Tesco, Asda, Sainsbury's and Morrisons - have been fighting back on price, narrowing the gap at the till, especially on the key everyday essentials.
But Matthew Barnes is adamant that Aldi will always be cheaper.
That's one reason why its profits fell.
"Profits are down and that's because of very challenging times last year particularly post Brexit.
"We invested a huge amount to keeping our prices the lowest in the sector.
We view that position of having the lowest price in the market as the contract we have with our customers, and whatever happens and whatever challenges arise we maintain that price gap," he says.
Aldi knows it can't take its eye off the ball on price.
Its whole business model depends on being cheaper than the traditional supermarkets.
That relentless focus on price is continuing to put the pressure on the big four, according to the editor of industry trade magazine The Grocer, Adam Leyland:

"The big supermarkets know they can't afford to let their guard down.
The discounters effectively have a foot on their throat, which means that they can't pass on price increases as easily and blithely as they had in the past."
Another reason for the dip in profits is that Aldi is pouring money into new stores and upgrading some of its tired looking existing shops as well as building new distribution centres, including Sheppey in Kent, to support its growth in the south east.
It is investing 1bn over the next two years.
The Glascote store has been the test bed for the new look Aldi supermarket.
It's spacious and has an upmarket feel, featuring lines of chilled cabinets where products can be more easily seen.
But is Aldi at risk of falling into the trap of complexity by building bigger, better stores and adding more products?
"The crucial thing is that while the stores are now bigger, the range is very tightly controlled and therefore all the focus is on having more of the same product in there to meet the demand," says Mr Leyland.
But he says the chain needs to balance improving the shoppers' experience with costs.
"What they've got to wrestle with is to decide how much money do you need to spend for it to be an acceptable experience."
Image copyright PA Image caption One analyst says Aldi could become the UK's fourth biggest grocer within a year or two

Collectively, Aldi and its discounter rival Lidl now account for 1 in every 8 spent in Britain's supermarkets according to research firm Kantar Worldpanel.
A decade ago this was only 1 in 25.
Aldi is no longer the plucky underdog.
It could even leap-frog Morrisons to become the UK's fourth biggest grocer within a year or two, believes one respected city analyst.
The bigger and more successful it gets, so the scrutiny will grow too.
The big four have been cutting costs as they work to simplify their businesses.
That's included heavy job losses at all of their headquarters.
At Aldi's head office, construction workers are putting the finishing touches to a new glass reception for a building that is more than doubling in size.
For now at least, like the flow of lorries from the distribution centre next door, this grocer is on a roll.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption India's once robust economy is slowing

India's economy grew at its slowest pace for three years in the April-to-June quarter and growth has declined for six quarters in a row.
Economic analyst Vivek Kaul explains why one of the world's fastest growing economies is sputtering to a halt.
On Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi revived India's economic council, a body that he had abolished soon after coming into power in 2014.
India has just seen its slowest economic growth since Mr Modi took over as the prime minister on the back of promises over more jobs and a stronger economy.
For the period between April and June 2017, Indian GDP grew by just 5.7% (as against 9.1% a year earlier).
Much of that 5.7% was because the government spent more than it usually does.
The non-government part of the GDP, which forms roughly 90% of the economy, grew by a meagre 4.3%.
Industry as a whole grew by 1.6%, with manufacturing and construction growing by 1.2% and 2% respectively.
The last time the economy grew by less than 6% (at 5.3%) was between January and March 2014, when Manmohan Singh was the prime minister.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Narendra Modi took over as the prime minister in May 2014

We live in a world where any rate of growth greater than 2% is considered to be good.
But what is true for Western countries isn't necessarily true for India.
India's GDP needs to grow at a rate faster than 7% for the country to continue to pull millions out of poverty.
"Even a small change in the growth rate of per capita income makes a big difference to eventual income per head," writes economist Vijay Joshi in India's Long Road - The Search for Prosperity.
This is what economists call the "power of compound interest".
And how would things look for India by 2040 at different rates of economic growth?
According to Joshi: "At a growth rate of 3% a year, income per head would double, and reach about the same level as China's per capita income today.
At a growth rate of 6% a year, income per head would quadruple to a level around that enjoyed by Chile, Malaysia and Poland today.
"If income per head grew at 9% a year, it would increase nearly eight-fold, and India would have a per capita income comparable to an average high-income country of today."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Agriculture still employs half of India's workforce

Agriculture, which accounts for around 15% of GDP, continues to employ half the country's workforce.
But exports between April and August 2017 are lower than they were in 2013 and 2014.
There is also India's so called demographic dividend - 12 million young Indians are entering the workforce every year.
But given the lack of a good education, most of these young people need low-skilled jobs, which the construction and real estate industries can provide.
With both sectors growing at the rate they are, where will the jobs come from?
The services sector continues to grow robustly, but it still needs support from industries like construction.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Millions of unskilled young people enter India's workforce each year

Even those industries that have the potential to create many jobs, such as apparel manufacturing, continue to operate on a small scale because of India's convoluted labour laws.
A recent report, Ease of Doing Business - An Enterprise Survey of Indian States, published by a federal institute, found that 85% of the firms operating in the apparel sector employed less than eight workers.
In fact, 85% of Indian manufacturing firms employ less than 50 workers.
The government feels that it has done enough to reform labour laws, and it is now the industry's responsibility to set up labour-intensive enterprises.
But as the data suggests, Indian industry continues to favour capital-intensive, rather than labour-intensive, methods of expansion.
As a result of all these factors, India has huge underemployment.
Numbers from 2015-2016 suggest that only three out of five people looking for a job throughout the year are able to find one.
The situation is worse in rural India, where only one in two are successful.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption After 86% of currency was cancelled overnight, Indians flooded banks to exchange the old notes for new ones

Demonetisation (a surprise government decision to cancel 86% of India's currency) has also made things worse - many firms operating in the cash-only informal sector, which created so many jobs, had to shut down.
And the Goods and Services Tax, a major overhaul that replaced numerous federal and state taxes with a single tax rate, hasn't helped either.
The other big worry is that India's largely government-owned public sector banks are in a mess.
Seventeen of 21 banks have a bad loans rate of 10% or more (as of 31 March).
Bad loans are loans in which the repayment from a borrower has been due for 90 days or more.
One bank (the Indian Overseas Bank) has a bad loans rate of 25%.
These bad loans are largely the result of lending to industry, where the overall bad loans rate stands at 22.3%.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption India's central bank is grappling with a crisis of bad loans

The government has already pumped in close to 1,500bn rupees ($23bn; 17bn) as capital since 2009 to keep these banks going.
But with the banks continuing to accumulate bad loans, they are going to need billions more as capital to continue to operate.
The federal government does not have this money but it remains reluctant to privatise or even shut down some of these banks.
A major impact of bad loans has been that public sector banks are now reluctant to lend to industry.
The Indian economy is suffering from many structural issues and if a long-term growth rate of 7-8% per year has to be sustained, these issues need to be tackled on a war footing.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Flooding in the Dominican Republic continues long after Hurricane Maria has passed

With hundreds dead and millions either left homeless, or facing huge damage to their properties, catastrophic flooding has devastated many parts of the world.
Nature's fury may seem unstoppable, but can technology at least help us to cope better?
Savage hurricanes and record rains have struck around the world, bringing chaos to many countries and regions, including Bangladesh, India, the Caribbean, China and Texas in the US.
Each year on average, flooding affects 96.9 million people worldwide, and causes $13.7bn (10bn) in damage, according to the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction.
Those figures are likely to rise dramatically after this year's deluges.
"There are now many indications that the incidence of storms and persistent rainfall events is increasing with climate change," says Dr Justin Butler, chief executive of Brighton-based flood risk assessment firm Ambiental.
But more accurate data from satellites and ground-based sensors, coupled with supercomputer modelling and machine learning, are giving us a clearer picture of which areas are likely to be most affected, says Mr Butler.
"Tens of thousands of simulations need to be run to capture a range of possible events," he explains, "so the number of calculations that have to be carried out every second runs into the billions."
This kind of modelling is helping authorities plan flood defences more effectively, insurers price risk more accurately, emergency services improve how they respond, and homeowners take better protective measures.
Ambiental's "digital terrain models", built up using Lidar (light distance and ranging) laser technology and other data, map how water flows across urban and rural landscapes.
Image copyright Ambiental Image caption Highly detailed satellite data is helping to improve flood map modelling

Its Flowroute modelling engine crunches all the data from sensors on land and in the sky - as well as historic data - to simulate complex flood flow patterns and make predictions.
All this extra data and computing power is helping insurance companies improve their pricing.
Liz Mitchell, founder of flood insurance specialist Flood Assist, says: "Recent flood events have seen insurers invest in more sophisticated data, which is allowing them to assess the flood risk of an individual property rather than that of a postcode.
"You can have many properties registered at a postcode, and some could literally be at the top of a hill and others at the bottom - they would represent very different risks."
In the 2011 Brisbane floods, Ambiental's model was 95% accurate, claims Mr Butler, correctly predicting flooding in 19 out of every 20 flooded properties.
More accurate modelling means some householders in previously "high risk" areas could see their premiums coming down.
But other householders, of course, could see their premiums rising after a reassessment.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Puerto Rico was also badly hit by Hurricane Maria, but the people were forewarned

"The use of data varies greatly from insurer-to-insurer.
The more sophisticated the data the more accurate - theoretically - their pricing should be," says Ms Mitchell.
Given that the cost of winter flooding in the UK last year was estimated to be 1.3bn, insurers are desperate to get a clearer picture of their likely liabilities.
More extreme weather needs more sophisticated monitoring, which is why Nasa has funded the Global Flood Monitoring System (GFMS), an experimental online computer program run by the University of Maryland.
It can make almost real-time flood analysis by combining data from satellites with a sophisticated land surface model that incorporates vegetation cover, soil type, and terrain.
If water cannot soak away into the land, flood surges are more probable, and knowing where these are likely to hit is crucial for saving lives.
Organisations like the Red Cross and the UN World Food Program are already using GFMS before, during, and after floods to supplement other on-the-ground intelligence they may have.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Japan's H-2A rocket carried the Himawari 8 weather satellite into orbit in 2014

Dr Robert Adler, a senior research scientist at the University of Maryland and one of the system's developers, says new Nasa satellite data has helped increase the accuracy of the model significantly - particularly useful during the recent Hurricane Harvey.
But he is not complacent.
"We've made a lot of progress and have had success," he says, "but there is still far to go.
Improvements in the satellite rainfall estimates will lead directly to improved flood analysis."
Computational power is useless without accurate data to work with, so groundbreaking new satellites, such as the Japanese Himawari-8, are making a big difference.
More Technology of Business

Image copyright Getty Images

It generates about 50 times more data than previous satellites, and can analyse average rainfall using thermal infrared images that read the temperature of cloud tops.
As well as advances in satellites, more sophisticated ground-based sensors are also improving modern flood prediction.
For example, the UK's Flood Network is harnessing the "internet of things" with the aim of creating an extensive, localised, early-warning system for flood-prone areas.
It uses wireless sensors monitoring water levels in streams, groundwater and river basins.
The data is transmitted over a Low-Power Wide-Area Network designed for long-range communications at a low bit rate.
Image copyright www.markbassett.co.uk Image caption Flood Network's sensors send water level data wirelessly

The initiative between Oxford-based Nominet and the Oxford Flood Network was launched in 2015, less than a year after the city was hit by floods that cut off major routes and homes for days.
"Although the Environment Agency provides blanket warnings, it has limited resources and uses just a few, expensive, professional sensors," says Adam Leach, Nominet's head of research and development.
"We thought that a higher density of sensors with more detailed data would make a real difference to monitoring water levels in flood-prone areas, particularly in small waterways.
"It's still relatively early days for the Flood Network," he adds, "but it demonstrates the huge potential the internet of things has to deliver the 'smart city' projects we've all heard so much about."
Forewarned is forearmed, they say, but a future Technology of Business feature will look at the technologies helping protect householders and businesses from the damage such floods can cause.
Image copyright Levi Strauss

Chip Bergh has the air of man at ease with the world.
But things could have turned out very different, given what he calls his "dysfunctional" childhood.
The 60-year-old chief executive of Levi Strauss, dressed in regulation blue jeans and denim shirt, readily admits to be being "blessed and lucky".
Six years into his successful turnaround of the once struggling US clothing firm, he says the job still gives him a "wow" feeling.
Mr Bergh and his family also love their San Francisco lifestyle, where the vegan boss pursues a passion for marathons and triathlons.
So, professionally and personally, things are going well for the former Procter & Gamble (P&G) executive.
But growing up in the suburbs of New York City there were times when he felt neither blessed nor lucky.
Mr Bergh's father was an advertising salesman working 14-hour days.
He was also an alcoholic.
Image copyright Devaki Knowles

There could be "lots of screaming and yelling" at home, Mr Bergh recalls.
"Mum and dad were always getting in fights."
One day his mother threatened to throw out his dad.
"That was a wake up call," says Mr Bergh.
His father then finally went to Alcoholics Anonymous, cleaned himself up and never touched another drop.
"I'm proud that my dad recovered," says Mr Bergh.
"He rebuilt his life."
Mr Bergh's childhood wasn't unhappy.
"I had a lot of friends, played a lot of sport, and went to a great school," he says.
But as the eldest of three children he says he shouldered much of the domestic discord, and grew up fast.
It left its mark and is in part behind his drive to succeed, he thinks.
It also left a determination not to repeat some of his father's mistakes.
"I'm pretty level-headed," says Mr Bergh.
"There's not a lot that really upsets me.
I'm not a yeller and screamer, at home or work.
I'm pretty relaxed."
And he doesn't drink.
Image copyright Levi Strauss Image caption Levi Strauss emigrated to the US from Germany in 1853 when he was 18

So, how does Mr Bergh sum up his management style?
"Very open, honest, transparent.
What you see is what you get."
He insists he's "really down to earth", adding: "I put my pants on the same way everybody else does - one leg at a time."
Just don't confuse this regular-guy image with a lack of steel, as Mr Bergh's overhaul of Levi's has been radical, some might say brutal.
The company was created in 1873 when San Francisco-based wholesale merchant Levi Strauss and a business partner patented a way to strengthen denim trousers using copper rivets.
The rest as they say is history.
Through slick advertising and campaigning on social and political issues (such as donating millions to HIV/Aids charities), Levi's punched above its weight for decades.
Stories were common in the 1960s and 1970s of young Westerners packing Levi's jeans in their luggage to help barter their way through holidays behind the Iron Curtain.
If ever a brand deserved the label "iconic", Levi's was it.
Image copyright Levi Strauss Image caption The Levi 501 jeans are arguably the company's single most important product

But by the time Mr Bergh took over in 2011, the company he calls the original Silicon Valley start-up "had lost its way".
Annual sales peaked in 1997 at $7.1bn (5.3bn).
"We were bigger than Nike then," says Mr Bergh.
"Nike aspired to be like Levi's."
But Levi's lost its knack of combining heritage with changing trends, and by the early 2000s sales had fallen to $4bn.
Competition from the likes of Walmart and Gap had increased rapidly.
Levi had also borrowed heavily, chiefly to buy out scores of Strauss family descendants, and consolidate ownership.
The result, says Mr Bergh, was that the firm found it had to "cut costs, cut marketing, to save cash".
Levi's board ultimately decided it needed a fresh pair of hands, and so turned to Mr Bergh, who had the brand expertise and international experience it wanted.
After 28 years at P&G, most latterly working on the Old Spice deodorant and razors accounts, Mr Bergh saw a chance to fulfil an ambition to become a chief executive.
"It was too good an opportunity to pass," he says.
"It was an opportunity to make a difference, and leave a legacy."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Chip Bergh is not afraid to "double denim"

All too aware that Levi's was struggling, Mr Bergh sent the firm's then top 60 managers six questions about the pros and cons of the business - and started interviewing each of them.
"But by about the 15th interview it was pretty clear what needed to be done," he says.
"There was no strategy, there was no alignment across the organisation... People were frustrated."
More The Boss features, which every week profile a different business leader from around the world:

Mr Bergh invested in facilities, broadened the clothing range (especially womenswear), and expanded in relatively untapped markets such as Russia, China and India.
The ecommerce operation, previously outsourced and treated almost as an after-thought, was brought in-house, modernised and expanded.
Mr Bergh also changed the top team at the business.
Within 18 months of his appointment, nine of the 11-member executive team had left.
Of the current 150 senior managers, two-thirds have been with the company for three years or less.
He says: "We needed to change not just the business but the culture, and the best way to change the culture is to change the leadership."
Image copyright Levi Strauss Image caption The original US patent for riveted jeans, from 1873

Mr Bergh admits the clear out was dramatic, sometimes traumatic, but says: "You always have to do the harder right than the easier wrong."
Did he learn such decisiveness in the army, which he joined for two years after school?
Making quick decisions was certainly part of the skill-set, he says.
But the army also taught him about leadership.
"It's wrong that the army is all about deference and saluting seniors," he says.
"You have to earn respect, build trust, be willing to make decisions, coach people and train people - all those skills are transferable to the corporate world."
The army's downside was that promotion moved slowly, and Mr Bergh wanted to "move ahead quickly".
A recruitment firm found him a job at P&G.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Chip Bergh on letting staff go with dignity

Levi's turnaround seems to be succeeding, with 2017 expected to see the fifth consecutive year of profits growth.
Retail analyst Marshal Cohen, of market research group NPD, says that yet again Levi's has been able to "reinvent" itself to a new generation.
However, Mr Bergh says the job is far from finished.
"We have made really good progress.
It's been harder and taken longer than I expected.
"I'm not satisfied with where we are.
We still have a lot more work to do."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Leo Baekeland invented Bakelite, the world's first first fully synthetic plastic

"Unless I am very much mistaken, this invention will prove important in the future."
Leo Baekeland wrote those words in his journal on 11 July, 1907.
He was in a good mood.
Aged 43, he'd done well.
Born in Belgium, his dad was a cobbler.
He'd had no education, and didn't understand why young Leo wanted one.
He apprenticed the boy into the trade, aged just 13.
But his mum had other ideas.
With her encouragement, Leo went to night school, and won a scholarship to the University of Ghent.
By the age of 20, he had a doctorate in chemistry.
He married his tutor's daughter and moved to New York, where he made so much money from photographic printing paper that he need never work again.
The Baekelands bought a house in Yonkers, overlooking the Hudson River, where Leo built a home laboratory to indulge his love of tinkering with chemicals.
In July 1907, he was experimenting with formaldehyde and phenol.
Image copyright Alamy Image caption Baekeland's invention made him famous enough to be featured on the cover of Time magazine

These experiments would lead to his second fortune.
He became so famous that Time magazine put his face on the cover without needing to mention his name, just the words, "It will not burn.
It will not melt."
What Leo Baekeland invented that July was the first fully synthetic plastic.
He called it Bakelite.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy highlights the inventions, ideas and innovations which have helped create the economic world in which we live.
It is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
And he was right about its future importance.
Plastics would soon be everywhere.
When Susan Freinkel wrote her book Plastic: A Toxic Love Story, she spent a day noting down everything she touched that was plastic: the light switch, the toilet seat, the toothbrush, the toothpaste tube.
She also noted everything that wasn't - the toilet paper, the wooden floor, the porcelain tap.
Unlimited potential

By the day's end, she'd listed 102 items that weren't made of plastic, and 196 that were.
We make so much plastic, it takes about 8% of oil production - half for raw material, half for energy.
The Bakelite Corporation didn't hold back in its advertising blurb: humans, it said, had transcended the old taxonomy of animal, mineral and vegetable.
Now we had a "fourth kingdom, whose boundaries are unlimited".
That sounds hyperbolic, but it was true.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Celluloid, which had been developed in the late 19th century, was gradually replaced by Bakelite and other more modern compounds

Scientists previously had thought about improving or mimicking natural substances.
Earlier plastics, like celluloid, were based on plants, and Baekeland himself had been seeking an alternative to shellac, a resin secreted by beetles that was used for electrical insulation.
Yet he quickly realised that Bakelite could become far more versatile than that.
Artificial explosion

The Bakelite Corporation christened it "The Material of a Thousand Uses", and, again, that wasn't far wrong.
It went into telephones, radios, guns, coffee pots, billiard balls and jewellery.
It was used in the first atomic bomb.
Image copyright Alamy

Bakelite's success shifted mindsets: what other artificial materials might be possible, with properties you couldn't necessarily find in nature?
In the 1920s and 1930s, plastics poured out of labs around the world.
There was polystyrene, often used for packaging, nylon, popularised by stockings, and polyethylene, the stuff of plastic bags.
As World War Two stretched natural resources, production of plastics ramped up to fill the gap.
And when the war ended, exciting new products like Tupperware hit the consumer market.
Image copyright Alamy

But they weren't exciting for long: the image of plastic gradually changed.
Shifting connotations

In 1967, the film The Graduate famously started with the central character, Benjamin Braddock, receiving unsolicited career advice from a self-satisfied older neighbour.
"Just one word," the neighbour promises, steering Benjamin towards a quiet corner, as if about to reveal the secret to life itself.
"Plastics!"
The line became much-quoted, because it crystallised the changing connotations of the word.
For the older neighbour's generation, "plastic" still meant opportunity and modernity.
For the likes of young Benjamin, it stood for all that was phoney, superficial, ersatz.
Still: it was great advice.
Half a century on, despite its image problem, plastic production has grown about twenty-fold.
It'll double again in the next 20 years.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption None of the commonly used plastics is biodegradable, and many are not recycled

That's also despite growing evidence of environmental problems.
Some of the chemicals in plastics are thought to affect how animals develop and reproduce.
When plastics end up in landfill, those chemicals can eventually seep into groundwater; when they find their way into oceans, some creatures eat them.
More from Tim Harford:

How fertiliser helped feed the world

The hidden strengths of unloved concrete

How the invention of paper changed the world

Battery bonanza: From frogs' legs to mobiles and electric cars

But there's another side to the ledger - plastic has benefits that aren't just economic, but environmental too.
Vehicles made with plastic parts are lighter, and so use less fuel.
Plastic packaging keeps food fresh for longer, and so reduces waste.
If bottles weren't made of plastic, they'd be made of glass.
Which would you rather gets dropped in your children's playground?
Rubbish recycling rates

Eventually, we'll have to get better at recycling plastic, if only because oil won't last forever.
Some plastics can't be recycled - like Bakelite.
Many more could be, but aren't.
In fact only about a seventh of plastic packaging is recycled - far less than for paper or steel.
That rate is lower still for other plastic products.
What should be the 51st Thing?
Image copyright Getty Images

Tim Harford has discussed 50 things which he argues have made the modern economy.
Help choose the 51st thing by voting for one of these listener suggestions:

The credit card

Glass

Global Positioning System (GPS)

Irrigation

The pencil

The spreadsheet

You can vote on the 50 Things That Made the Modern Economy programme website.
Voting closes at 12:00 GMT Friday 6 October 2017, and the winning 51st Thing will be announced in a special podcast on 28 October 2017.
Improving that will take effort from everyone.
You may have seen little triangles on plastic, with numbers from one to seven.
They're called Resin Identification Codes, and they're one initiative of the industry's trade association.
They help with recycling, but the system's far from perfect.
If the industry could do more, then so could many governments: recycling rates differ hugely around the world.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Taiwan has been widely praised for achieving a recycling rate of around 55%

One success story is Taipei, Taiwan.
It changed its culture of waste by making it easy for citizens to recycle, and fining them if they don't.
How about technological solutions?
Revolutionary?
Fans of science fiction will enjoy one recent invention, the ProtoCycler.
Feed it your plastic waste, and it gives you filament for your 3D printer.
It is as close as we can get today to Star Trek's replicator.
Image copyright Redetec Image caption The ProtoCycler recycles waste plastic into 3D printer filament

In its day, Bakelite must have felt as revolutionary as that Star Trek replicator still feels to us.
Here was a simple, cheap synthetic product that was tough enough to replace ceramic tableware or metal letter openers, yet beautiful enough to be used as jewellery, and could even replace precious ivory.
It was a miracle material, even though - like all plastics today - we now take it for granted.
But manufacturers today haven't given up on the idea that you can make something precious and practical from something cheap and worthless.
The latest techniques "upcycle" plastic trash, mixing it with agricultural waste and nanoparticles to create new materials, with new properties.
Leo Baekeland would have approved.
Tim Harford writes the Financial Times's Undercover Economist column.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
Image copyright Getty Images

Over the past year, we've been exploring 50 key things that have contributed to the development of the modern economy, including inventions such as the diesel engine, the battery, the shipping container, Google, antibiotics and the Billy bookcase.
But what did we miss?
What should be the 51st thing that made the modern economy?
We've received hundreds of suggestions, which we've whittled down to a shortlist of six.
You can vote for your favourite, and the winner will feature in a special programme and podcast on 28 October 2017.
The credit card

The first option of our six traces its history to 1960, in Minnesota in the US.
Dorothea Parry was ironing when her husband, Forrest, came home from work at the computer giant IBM.
How was his day?
Well, he had a problem.
IBM had worked out how to encode information on magnetic strips.
They wanted to fix the strips to plastic cards.
But he couldn't work out how.
Dorothea could.
She ironed them on.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Behavioural economists say we spend differently on plastic compared with cash

The addition of the magnetic stripe was a huge boost for credit cards, which were just a few years old and struggling for acceptance.
Merchants shown a Diners Club or American Express card had to phone the bank.
IBM's magnetic strip paved the way for a far less cumbersome approach.
The new credit cards were pushed aggressively.
And people soon found that having a "flexible friend" could make us drop our financial guard: behavioural economists tell us that spending on plastic is psychologically much easier than spending cash.
The price of convenience has been ballooning household debt.
But it's hard to imagine the modern economy without them.
Glass

Our second suggestion also requires heat to manufacture, but a household iron won't do the job.
You need temperatures of 1,700C to make glass.
Who first did that is lost to history, but they probably lived in Egypt, Syria or Mesopotamia, about 5,500 years ago.
Did they look at sand and have an unlikely brainwave: "I wonder what would happen if we melted it?"
Or did they discover glass by accident, perhaps while smelting bronze?
Who knows?
But it's safe to bet that the early glassmakers could never have predicted how it would shape the economy.
And if you choose glass as the 51st thing, my challenge will be choosing how to tell its story.
Image copyright Thinkstock Image caption Glass touchscreen technology has driven the development of smartphones and tablets

Perhaps you're reading this on a touchscreen device, accessing the internet via fibre-optic cables.
Is that the story of glass?
Or I could focus, so to speak, on the lens - how the telescope and microscope changed our knowledge of the world.
Spectacles, windows, or fibreglass could each fill an episode of their own.
GPS (global positioning system)

One of the real challenges when choosing my list of 50 was that so many inventions overlap, one bright idea later enabling another.
The story of clocks, for example, concluded by observing that GPS wouldn't work without extremely accurate timekeeping.
But many of you felt that GPS deserves a story of its own, and that's our third possibility.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption GPS technology has revolutionised transportation

If you've got a smartphone, it probably has a GPS receiver.
There are 31 satellites flying around the Earth right now, constantly transmitting their position and the time.
If your phone can pick up signals from at least four of them, it can do some clever maths to work out where it is, and plot its position for you on a map.
Like many of our 50 things, GPS has military origins: the US Department of Defense developed it to win the Cold War.
Now, in turn, GPS is enabling bright ideas that will make the economy of the future - new business models that connect buyers and sellers, and new technologies such as self-driving vehicles, robots and drones.
Irrigation

The fourth item on our shortlist begins with an old story about a flood.
It's not the Judaeo-Christian tale of Noah's Ark, but the Chinese story of Emperor Yu, the founder of China's first dynasty 4,000 years ago.
Noah floated on the waters, but Emperor Yu tamed them, recruiting an army of labourers - along with a dragon and a giant turtle - to assist in setting up irrigation and drainage.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The traditional irrigation system used in Bali's Jatiluwih rice fields has Unesco world heritage status

Great Yu changed China, and irrigation continues to shape our economy, from California, where arguments rage over the most valuable use of scarce water, to Bali, where the intricacy of the water-management system has astonished visiting experts.
The only woman to receive a Nobel Memorial Prize in economics, Lin Ostrom, spent much of her life studying irrigation systems.
Ostrom was fascinated by how humans cooperate to manage common resources.
There are few more important questions than that - and few better case studies than how we decide who gets how much water, as it trickles - often crossing borders - from the hills down to the sea.
The pencil

Paper was one of our 50 things.
Should we add the pencil to the list?
It does have a special place in the history of economic thought.
In 1958, the libertarian economist Leonard Reed published an essay called I, Pencil, in which an ordinary pencil explained the miracle of its existence.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The humble pencil can demonstrate the sophistication of the modern globalised economy

The pencil boasted cedar from Oregon which had been milled in California, graphite from Sri Lanka, a brass ferule, a rubber made from Italian pumice and Indonesian rape-seed oil, and more besides.
Leonard Reed's point was that in a modern economy, behind even the humblest of objects was a tale of international supply chains, complex manufacturing, capital investment and science.
No one person can make a pencil from scratch, yet the miracle of market forces makes pencils available for pennies.
The pencil is a small enough player on the global scale - but a perfect way to understand the sophistication of the modern economy.
The spreadsheet

Time for one more idea, plucked from a list of hundreds.
But where did we store that list?
On a spreadsheet, of course.
Or perhaps I should say, 'On a digital spreadsheet' - because pencil-and-paper spreadsheets used to be ubiquitous.
The accountants of the 1970s would fill out row upon row of cost and revenue assumptions.
A single change might require hours - or even days - with a calculator, a pencil and a rubber.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Spreadsheets transformed accountancy and made extremely sophisticated analysis possible

The first electronic spreadsheet, VisiCalc, came in 1979.
It was the brainchild of Dan Bricklin - a computer-savvy student at Harvard Business School.
He fantasised about creating a spreadsheet that would recalculate itself.
His software revolutionised finance.
Wall Street and the City of London started trading financial products that could hardly be said to exist - let alone be comprehended - without a spreadsheet.
It reshaped accountancy, destroying the jobs of clerks who had pored over paper spreadsheets.
But it created new jobs for analysts, exploring one scenario after another.
We increasingly understand the world around us through numbers, and the digital spreadsheet deserves much of the credit for that.
How to vote

You can vote for one of the six things listed above on the 50 Things That Made the Modern Economy programme website, where you can also see the full terms and conditions.
Voting closes at 12:00 GMT on Friday 6 October 2017, and the winning 51st thing will be announced in a special programme and podcast on 28 October 2017.
You can listen to all the episodes of 50 Things That Made the Modern Economy on the programme website, or download them as podcasts.
The round 1 coin will soon lose its status as legal tender.
In practice, shops can refuse to accept these coins from 16 October.
They have been used alongside the new 12-sided 1 coin since March - a period called co-circulation.
Now, there is not long left to spend, bank, exchange or donate old pounds coins but, first, you have to find them.
The Treasury and Royal Mint estimate that around 500 million round pounds are still out there somewhere.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption A brief history of decimal coins

Rounding them up

Those old, round 1 coins might be lurking somewhere around the house.
Chris Bird, senior lecturer in psychology at the University of Sussex, says one way to find them is to visualise a situation when you had a handful of loose change.
"We can use our memory to imagine situations when we would use them and where we would leave them," he says.
"That is what the memory is for.
We use our memory to make decisions in the now and in the future."
He says that a fairly recent discovery reveals that we use the same part of our brain to remember the past as we do to imagine ourselves in a certain situation.
So the same mechanism in the brain's memory system allows us not only to travel back, but also to consider the present or the future.
The other way to find those old coins, according to Mr Bird, is simply to check all of the places that you know are where you commonly keep change.
So here is a handy list of 10 places to look:

1.
A wallet or purse

Sometimes the most obvious is the last place you look.
Shops can give the round 1 coins as change until 16 October, so they could be popped into a wallet or purse in a rush.
The Royal Mint has been encouraging shops to bag the round pounds separately so, when they are banked, they are taken out of circulation.
Down the back of the sofa

Image copyright Getty Images

The most clichd answer to the question of where to find loose change.
Honestly, when was the last time you found coins down there?
But when was the last time you looked?
It is probably worth checking in the next few days, along with armchairs, and beds.
Even if you do not find any money, you may come across the remote control for the DVD player.
Supermarket bag for life

You have finished your Friday night big shop and you are about to carry your groceries to the bus or car, but first you lock up the supermarket trolley and your 1 coin pops out of the mechanism.
Into the bag for life it goes.
Perhaps it is still there?
If the bag really is for life, then it might be sitting in the back of the cupboard under the stairs.
Most supermarket trolleys have now been altered to accept the new 12-sided 1 coin, but there was a delay at Tesco when the new coin was launched in March.
Big night out handbag

Image copyright Getty Images

It is only used on special occasions, so it might be at the back of the wardrobe or hanging on a peg behind a few coats.
The chances are that there is still a bit of cash in there, maybe some change from the bar or the taxi home.
If you go out a lot, you will have found the cash already.
If you have young children, then the last big night was probably months ago.
Winter coat pocket

While you are still at the back of the wardrobe, why not check the pockets of your winter coats.
It is unlikely that they have been worn since the new 12-sided 1 coin entered circulation on 28 March, and they might not be worn again before 16 October.
The old 1 coins cannot be spent in the shops after that date, but they can continue to be deposited into an account at most High Street banks and the Post Office for the foreseeable future.
The top drawer

Image copyright Getty Images

Any top drawer around the house seems a natural place to throw some loose change - even if it has socks in it.
It might also be the chance to declutter.
Is the only reason that the top drawer is always overflowing while the bottom is fine simply because we are too lazy to bend down?
Children's piggy banks

Children's financial habits are formed by the age of seven, according to the government-backed Money Advice Service.
So if your children are super savers, then there could be quite a few 1 coins in their piggy banks.
Junior savings accounts can generally be opened with as little as 1, to keep that savings habit going.
It may be a chance for the youngsters to spend the fruits of their savings labours before there is a scene in the toy shop when the cashier refuses an old, lovingly saved 1 coin.
It is worth remembering too that tooth fairies should no longer use old, round 1 coins from 16 October.
A charity pot

Image copyright HM Treasury

Many homes will have a charity pot of some kind, ranging from those big glass bottles to a cardboard shoe box.
The UK Treasury and the Royal Mint have joined forces with the BBC's Children in Need appeal to ask anyone who finds some old 1 coins to donate them to the charity.
"We are encouraging everyone who can, to promise their round pounds to Pudsey," says Andrew Jones, exchequer secretary to the Treasury.
Car glove compartment

There are probably many more coins in vehicle glove compartments than gloves.
A recent survey by the AA motoring organisation suggested drivers have been avoiding parking spots that require payment by phone as cash remained a more popular way to pay.
Many drivers keep coins in the glove compartment for parking fares, and in that little well by the gear stick that is designed to hold cups.
Gym kit bag

Image copyright Getty Images

Attendance at the gym or sports centre may have waned a little since the subscription was bought with good intentions in the new year.
The gym bag may actually have been unopened throughout the summer.
In which case, the 1 coins for the locker may be old round ones, rather than new 12-sided ones.
Dig them out, pop them in the bank, and save them ready for January's subscription renewal, when the good intentions start all over again.
The new 1 coin: Vital statistics

Image copyright PA

Thickness: 2.8mm - thinner than old coin

Weight: 8.75g - lighter than old coin

Diameter: 23.4mm - larger than old coin

Number to enter circulation: 1.5 billion - about 23 per person.
Old 1 coins will be melted down to make new ones

Outer ring: gold-coloured, made from nickel-brass

Inner ring: silver-coloured, made from nickel-plated alloy
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption My Little Pony with attitude: US designer Jeremy Scott at Moschino's fashion show in Milan

The fashion industry is experiencing a revolution, with mermaids, unicorns, sparkles and vintage toys now all the rage in High Street fashion shops.
Products once considered to be "too childish" or alternative for women to wear are now increasingly popular.
Moschino has just launched its My Little Pony collection for Spring/Summer 2018 at Milan Fashion Week.
But the trend has led to renewed debate among consumers about whether wearing such fashion items is a sign of immaturity.
A new social phenomenon is arising on Instagram, whereby young women have become the key influencers for their friendship circles and communities.
Social trends

Users now regularly post photos of their outfits on Instagram, together with a full run-down of what they are wearing and where they got it from.
If someone has a unique and unusual item, others covet it.
Image copyright Jessica Ayton Image caption Quirky cute alternative fashion items can now be found on the High Street

To ensure that more people see the outfit shot posts, users include hashtags for different styles and tag the small businesses they purchased the item from.
This helps other consumers find the product, as well as providing free publicity for independent brands.
Over time, these trends grow on social networks, often without ever receiving mainstream media coverage.
Relatable fashion

Now, some of these fashion trends are making their way into the mainstream - whether it's seashell bags, pink heart chokers, sparkly rubber phone cases, pastel jackets, comfortable boat-like shoes called "creepers", fluffy neon fur tops or colourful see-through backpacks.
"People just want something they can relate to," says Rosanna Mackney, the creative director of Dreamy Bows, a UK retailer of Japanese fashion.
"If you see a model in a magazine, you know they've had styling and a makeup artist to do it for them, but if you see someone's Instagram account, you know that they achieved that look by themselves, so you know it's a lot more realistic that you can achieve the look yourself."
Image copyright Ruth Brain Image caption Clothing themed around vintage 1980s toys like My Little Pony, Care Bears and Polly Pocket are also now all the rage

Merchandise depicting vintage toys like My Little Pony and Polly Pocket have also seen a revival amongst fashionistas on Instagram.
Apart from Moschino, American independent makeup brand Lime Crime recently launched a line of eyeshadow palettes inspired by 1990s Polly Pocket playsets.
Lime Crime founder Doe Deere says that her beauty brand wants customers to be unapologetically expressive: "Our customers create the trends - they inspire us daily.
"Women have been told a lot of things [about what they should wear], but thankfully the fashion and beauty industries are populated with innovators and change-makers who don't give much thought to the rules."
'Be adult'

Yet many think that childlike items should be best left in childhood.
"You may like bright and vibrant colours.
That is perfectly fine.
But you are not a little girl.
You are an adult woman, and there is pride in being an adult women," Racked.com's Jennifer Wright implores in a critique of the 2017 summer fashion trends.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Are the symbols and fashions you choose to wear really a sign of how mature you are?
"Please don't latch onto the fantasy world of mermaids and unicorns and whatever other bits of girlish nostalgia is being marketed to you.
"None of those things are real.
Now, more than ever, we need to be present in the real world that's unfolding.
The world needs adult women, desperately."
Financial crisis

Ruth Brain, 27, an alternative fashion YouTube vlogger from Edinburgh known online as "Princess Peachie", has been collecting vintage toys since 2005.
Ms Brain who has 59,000 YouTube subscribers and 12,000 Instagram followers says that while her hobby was judged as being "weird" 12 years ago, nowadays young women feel more comfortable expressing themselves openly.
"Those of us who grew up through the late 1980s to early 2000s are all kind of withdrawing to that carefree, happier feeling," she says.
"Which for us was before the point we finished high school and got tossed into a financial crisis."
"But also we're all kind of realising that 'growing up' isn't really related to aesthetic.
Image copyright Dreamy Bows Image caption The latest trends are heavily influenced by the Harajuku street styles from Japan and other underground movements

"It's related to your intelligence, wisdom and emotional maturity - so if you're wearing My Little Ponies on your sweatshirt or Care Bears on your socks, none of that really matters in the grand scheme of things, as long as it makes you smile," says Ms Brain.
Fashion rebels

Rosanna Mackney also disagrees that wearing colourful, cute fashion items is a sign of immaturity.
"It's a rebellion against what society and high fashion thinks women should dress like," she says.
"Mature, understated elegance, muted colours - lots of people don't want to conform to this, and sometimes we just want to wear cute and colourful things that express all sides of our personalities."
But perhaps times are changing, and the so-called "rules" governing a woman's perceived maturity are being turned on their head.
"Fashion today is becoming more young and fun - it's kind of like they're branching out for the 'weird kid'," says Jessica Ayton, 27, an alternative fashion blogger from West Yorkshire with 5,000 followers on Instagram.
"The cutesy fashion, we're allowed to embrace it now."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption If a hacker managed to switch off a life-support machine, the results could be fatal

Imagine a hacker remotely turning off a life support machine in a hospital, or shutting down a power station.
These are the nightmare scenarios we face because many organisations haven't a clue how many unsecured devices are connected to their networks, cyber-security experts warn.
It was an ordinary day at a busy hospital - doctors, nurses and surgeons rushed about attending to the health of their patients.
For Hussein Syed, chief information security officer for the largest health provider in New Jersey, it was the health of his IT network that was keeping him busy.
And today, he was in for a surprise.
He knew he presided over a complex web of connected medical devices, computers, and software applications spread across RWJBarnabas Health's 13 hospitals.
This included about 30,000 computers, 300 apps, a data centre, as well as all the mobile phones hooking up to the hospitals' wi-fi networks.
Company mergers had only added to the complexity of these sprawling IT systems.
Image copyright RWJBarnabas Health Image caption Hussein Syed discovered that there were around 70,000 devices connected to his network

But when he used a specialist IoT cyber-security program to carry out a full audit, he discovered that there were in fact 70,000 internet-enabled devices accessing the health firm's network - far more than he'd expected.
"We found a lot of things we were not aware of," Mr Syed tells the BBC, "systems that weren't registered with IT and which didn't meet our security standards."
These included security cameras and seemingly innocuous gadgets such as uninterruptible power supplies (UPSs) - units that provide back-up battery power in the event of a power cut.
"These unidentified devices could definitely have been access points for hackers who could have then found high-value assets on our network," says Mr Syed.
Hack in to a UPS and you could potentially switch off life-critical machines, he explains.
Or hackers could steal patient data, encrypt it, then demand a ransom for its safe return.
On the black market "health data is worth 50 times more than credit card data", says Mr Syed.
Image copyright RWJBarnabas Health Image caption Hospitals like this RWJBarnabas Health one in New Jersey are also complex IT networks

The audit "helped us protect our network," he adds, preferring not to dwell on what might have been.
Mike DeCesare, chief executive of ForeScout, the software provider Mr Syed brought in, says: "Businesses typically underestimate by 30% to 40% how many devices are linked to their network.
It's often a shock when they find out.
"With the proliferation of IoT [internet of things] devices the attack surface for hackers has increased massively.
"Traditional antivirus software was designed on the assumption that there were just a few operating systems.
Now, because of IoT, there are thousands."
ForeScout's software monitors a company's network and indentifies every device trying to access it, "not just from its IP [internet protocol] address, but from 50 other attributes and fingerprints", says Mr DeCesare.
The reason for these other layers of security is that it is "relatively easy" for hackers to mask the identity of a particular device - known as MAC [media access control] spoofing.
So ForeScout's software takes a behavioural approach to monitoring.
Image copyright ForeScout Image caption ForeScout boss Mike DeCesare says his company can spot rogue devices on the network

"We look at the traffic from all those different devices and analyse whether they are behaving like they should," he says.
"Is that printer behaving like a printer?
So why is it trying to access other devices on the network and break in to the system?
"If we spot aberrant behaviour we can disconnect the device from the network automatically."
Services from network monitoring firms - ForeScout, Solar Winds, IBM, SecureWorks, Gigamon and others - are becoming increasingly necessary in a world where everything - from lamp-posts to lawn sensors - is becoming internet-enabled.
According to Verizon's latest State of the Market: Internet of Things report there are now 8.4 billion connected devices - a 31% increase on 2016 - and $2tn (1.5tn) will have been spent on the technologies by the end of 2017.
But as Verizon points out, lack of industry-wide standards for IoT devices is giving businesses major security concerns.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Technology explained: What is the internet of things?
Stories of cyber-attacks mounted on the back of insecure devices such as video cameras have highlighted the issue.
"IoT security is one of the biggest challenges we're facing right now," says Darren Thomson, chief technology officer and vice president, technology services at cyber-security firm Symantec.
The difficulty is that IoT devices are generally simple, cheap and low-powered, without the capability of running the antivirus programs operated by traditional computers.
"The challenge with critical infrastructure is that it wasn't built with security in mind," says Tom Reilly, chief executive of Cloudera, the IoT and data analytics platform.
"Smart cities are a great playing field for hackers - changing traffic lights, turning elevators on and off - there are many security exposures.
"We need to get ahead of them."
This necessitates a different approach to security, a growing number of experts believe.
In April, telecoms giant Verizon launched what it calls its IoT "security credentialing" service, whereby only trusted, verified devices are allowed to access a company's network.
Meanwhile, Cloudera has formed a strategic partnership with chip maker Intel.
More Technology of Business

Image copyright Getty Images

"Intel makes the chips that are being used in many IoT sensors," explains Mr Reilly, "and all that data being created needs to land in a database like ours residing in a data centre.
"We authenticate all the devices - we're creating an end-to-end platform for the IoT world."
Rival GE Digital, a subsidiary of the global engineering giant GE, has also developed its own IoT and data analytics platform called Predix which it is outsourcing to big clients such as British Airways and oil giant Exxon.
IoT sensors are fitted to big machines, from gas turbines to aero engines, and these transmit "petabytes of data in real time that helps us work out how to optimise their maintenance", says Bill Ruh, GE Digital chief executive.
"We get all that data back via virtual private networks mostly in a highly secure encrypted fashion."
But if you don't have the resources to commit to an entire IoT ecosystem operated by a major tech company, behavioural network monitoring may be your next best bet.
Just bear in mind that your organisation's defences are only as strong as the weakest part.
Beware the invisible network.
Image copyright Jorge Sarmento Image caption Cork is harvested from a type of oak tree, with Portugal the world's largest producer

If you are a regular wine drinker it is almost certain that you have opened a corked bottle or two in your time.
As a result of a tainted cork, the wine smells and tastes unpleasant - all musky and mouldy.
After the initial disappointment, you then have the worry of trying to get your money back from the wine shop or supermarket.
Or you may face an awkward conversation with a supercilious wine waiter, whose boss might not take kindly to reimbursing you, especially if it was an expensive bottle and the taint isn't too prominent.
Figures for how many cork-sealed wine bottles are affected by cork taint are hotly disputed, but a 2007 study put it as high as one in 10.
With reputations on the line, and money lost on wine tipped down sinks, it is not surprising that winemakers around the world are continuing to ditch corks for metal screw-cap openings on their bottles.
So much so that cork went from sealing 95% of wine bottles globally in the 1990s, to just 62% in 2009.
This is bad news for Portugal's cork producers, who supply more than half the world market from forests of cork oak trees in the south of the country.
However, the industry is fighting back.
Image copyright APcor Image caption Natural corks are "punched" out of strips of cork

But first, what exactly is cork taint?
It is caused by a chemical compound known as TCA.
In very simple terms, TCA is created by tiny airborne fungi that have attached themselves to the cork.
It isn't harmful, but it can make your wine taste bad, or alternatively strip it of flavour.
Carlos de Jesus, director of marketing at Portugal's largest cork producer, Amorim, admits that about 13 years ago things looked bleak for the future of natural corks in some countries.
"Of course everything has its upsides and downsides, but there was a moment there around 2003-04 where the image of cork not having a future was taking place in some markets, mainly in Australia and New Zealand," he says.
Image copyright Philipe Laurent Image caption The trees grow the cork back over a nine-year period

Fast-forward to today, and Mr de Jesus says that Amorim is leading efforts to prevent any TCA infected corks getting into the system.
It does this using a process it calls "NDTech", whereby it uses hi-tech sensor machines to weed out any bad corks.
Mr de Jesus adds: "We can do that analysis not in minutes... but in seconds.
We can now give an individual guarantee, cork by cork."
And despite the big move to screw-caps, particularly still in Australia and New Zealand, Amorim now produces 4.4 billion corks per year, out of a total 12 billion industry-wide.
This compares with 4.7 billion screw-caps per annum, and 1.8 billion bottles with plastic stoppers.
Despite the hard work of Amorim and other members of the Portuguese cork industry to tackle TCA, Australian wine boss Mitchell Taylor says he doesn't expect he will ever go back to corks.
Image copyright APcor Image caption A total 12 billion natural corks are made each year

Mr Taylor is managing director of Taylors Wines (known as Wakefield Wines in the UK), based in South Australia's Clare Valley.
In 2004 it was the first major Australian winery to decide to seal all its wines under screw-cap.
"We were finding we had TCA and random oxidation problems with up to 10-15% of our wines, and we were able to eliminate that overnight," he says.
"The world has moved forward, I compare going back to cork as the horse and cart, it's a great form of transport, but really we've moved on in modern technology."
Yet while Mr Taylor is adamantly against natural corks, it remains the case that the vast majority of top European and American wines are still sealed with them.
In addition to being a case of tradition, and a continuing perception that the wine will be of better quality, natural corks have a proven record over the centuries of helping fine wines to mature by letting in tiny amounts of oxygen, something screw-caps cannot properly replicate.
Grgich Hills Estate in California's Napa Valley is one winemaker that is mainly sticking with natural corks, which it uses on 70% of its wines.
It typically pays about 70-93 cents (52-69p) per high-quality Portuguese cork.
Image copyright Taylors Image caption Australian wine firm Taylors was the first in that country to switch completely to using screw-caps

Ivo Jeramaz, Grgich's vice president of grape growing and production, says: "These days our research points to three to five corks per 1,000 being affected by TCA, not three to five per 100, so it's far less than it used to be."
He adds that "top notch expensive wines" need natural corks, "just as you wouldn't drink it from a paper cup".
More stories from the BBC's Business Brain series looking at interesting business topics from around the world:

Are changeable heels the end to women's sore feet?
Do the colours you wear at work matter?
Turning the dead into vinyl records

How Sicilian oranges are being made into clothes

Grgich doesn't use any screw-caps at all, and instead for the other 30% of its bottles it is experimenting with a new cork called "Diam".
Developed by a French firm of the same name, Diam corks are made by milling cork into granules which are treated with carbon dioxide to remove any TCA, before being pressed and glued into a cork shape.
Diam corks are now growing quickly in popularity, particularly among French winemakers aiming at the middle market.
Image copyright Diam Image caption Diam corks are made from treated cork granules, which are then pressed into shape

Mark Pardoe, a master of wine at UK merchant Berry Bros & Rudd, says that natural cork is still the "preferred closure for wines that require cellarage".
He adds: "Its elasticity and ability to allow a very gentle oxidation when a wine is correctly stored makes it a still-unsurpassed closure for long-term wines.
"Progress in cork processing methods mean that some cork producers are now able to give guarantees, and traceability, to insure the drinker against increasingly infrequent "corked" bottles.
"And, as such, cork is still the premium wine closure, although every premium winery experiments with other closures."
The Portuguese cork industry is also keen to stress its environmental credentials, particularly the fact that trees are not cut down to harvest the cork.
Instead the cork is stripped from beneath the bark, and then grows back over a nine-year period.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Screw-caps can remove the threat of TCA, but some question whether they work for wines that need to be cellared for many years

Michael Colangelo, vice president of New York-based PR firm Colangelo & Partners, which is promoting Portuguese cork in the US, says: "Many people still don't understand the sustainability of cork, in that it's like shearing a sheep - you don't kill the sheep to get the wool."
Ramiro Baptista, manager of cork firm Portugalia, adds that the global wine industry is large enough for all forms of closure to have a bright future.
Image copyright James Whitty Image caption 12oz Coffee Joint founder David Nathaniel says the chain has been welcomed in Italy

In Italy coffee is synonymous with espresso, downed quickly and without ceremony.
But a new breed of American-style coffee shops is drawing in younger Italians.
"We like it here because we can study and be connected online.
We both prefer American-style coffee than Italian and we love the different style of cakes," say Aurora, 13, and Linda, aged 14.
It's just before lunchtime and we're sitting inside 12oz Coffee Joint - a self-styled American coffee shop near the Duomo in Milan.
'Un caffe'

Italy is viewed by many as the world capital of coffee - wherever you turn you see a bar serving espresso, cappuccino or caffe macchiato as well as the traditional brioche.
In these places, if you asked for a latte you would be served a glass of milk.
Ordering an espresso is also unnecessary; "un caffe" is all you need to say.
Coffee and espresso are synonymous in Italy.
But in here the drink options are far more exotic, with americano, iced cinnamon lattes or caramel macchiatos all on offer.
It's not just the drinks.
The counter is piled high with a vast array of doughnuts, muffins, brownies and bagels.
Image copyright James Whitty Image caption 12oz Coffee Joint has a coffee shop near the Duomo in Milan.
One customer, Alberto, who is 32, says it's these kinds of differences that have drawn him in.
"I enjoy coming here because it's stylish and has a young fresh feel to it compared to Italian coffee shops."
It's young Italians like these who are starting to shake up the traditional Italian coffee culture in Italy.
12oz Coffee Joint opened its first store in 2015 and there are now six in Milan and one opening soon in Verona.
The chain wants to expand to major cities such as Rome and Venice.
But what made Italian founder David Nathaniel want to sell American coffee in his home country?
Image copyright James Whitty Image caption The chain also serves US-style cakes

"I have two children who are teenagers - whenever they went abroad they always wanted to have photos posted on social media with big cups of coffee with whipped cream," he says.
"Then one day I saw a typical woman from Milan with her Louis Vuitton handbag with a big cup of coffee and she became my muse.
"If she was walking the streets of Milan with a big cup of coffee then the time had come."
Despite the non-traditional concept, he says the coffee shop was broadly welcomed when it opened.
"We had no anger or opposition but it was funny to see the faces of people who would come in and not understand the concept.
"Their reactions to drinking coffee in big paper cups was quite amusing - a lot of professionals in the market actually felt there was a need for such a chain."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Young Italian coffee drinkers are keen to experiment

Jonny Forsyth, global drinks analyst at market research firm Mintel, says traditional coffee shops have failed to keep up with changing tastes.
"Italian coffee shop culture is so traditional that it has determinedly ignored modern consumer trends.
"It is also very rare to find flavoured coffee, although some outlets in the north serve coffee with Nutella or hazelnut paste," he says.
Changing trends

Yet Mintel's research has found that Italians, particularly younger ones, are keen to experiment beyond the traditional espresso.
Its research showed a majority (64%) of 16-24 year-old Italian coffee drinkers like trying different flavours of coffee (e.g.
vanilla, hazelnut) at home compared to 42% of those aged 55 and above.
Mintel also found that over three-quarters of 16-24-year-olds who drink coffee in a typical week like the taste of milky coffee compared to 60% of regular Italian coffee drinkers aged 45 and above.
Image copyright James Whitty Image caption Arnold Coffee, founded by Alfio Bardolla (right), opened in 2009

It's not just 12oz Coffee Joint which has emerged to take advantage of these changing tastes.
US-style chain Arnold Coffee opened its first shop in 2009, also in Milan.
It now has nine coffee shops with more set to open in Florence and Rome.
Italian founder Alfio Bardolla says the fact that their shop allows customers to stay longer and linger over a coffee is one of their big attractions.
"The Italian bar is based on a 'drink up and leave' mentality and if you're there for more than 10 minutes they get annoyed.
"We thought that if McDonald's had succeeded [in Italy], then so would American coffee."
Image copyright James Whitty Image caption At Arnold Coffee customers stay longer than in traditional bars

Mr Bardolla baulks at the idea that selling US-style coffee means the quality suffers, arguing the fact it is often diluted means they have to use better quality coffee.
"People do not come to us to drink an espresso but an espresso with our coffee is even better than the traditional bars.
Our price is higher but the quality is higher."
One self-confessed coffee addict and Arnold customer, 22-year-old Alessia, is convinced.
"It's lighter than Italian coffee and I love that you can carry it around with you in the big paper cups," she says.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Starbucks says it is opening in Italy with "humility and respect"

Coffee giant Starbucks is betting on more US coffee fans like Alessia when it opens its first store in the country next year, a high-end, high-concept roastery in Milan two minutes from the Duomo and the historic Galleria Vittorio Emanuele II.
The American coffee chain has promised to enter the birthplace of the espresso "with humility and respect".
But what do traditional Italian coffee owners think about the shift in culture?
Image copyright James Whitty Image caption Caffe Rigoletto owner Vito Fortunato says they make US requests "the Italian way"

Vito Fortunato, owner of Caffe Rigoletto in Salsomaggiore Terme, in the province of Parma, says he believes American-style coffees, particularly the flavoured ones "are really bad for you".
Even when they get "American requests" he says they make it "the Italian way".
"In Italy for someone who wants to have a different style coffee we put a small drop of flavoured syrup or brandy or a drop of fresh whipped cream or a small scoop of ice cream but this is very traditionally Italian."
But he says the biggest loss from the growing numbers of young Italians choosing American-style coffee shops over their local neighbourhood espresso bars is nothing to do with flavour, but with culture.
"The customer sees the bar as a place to open up, to confide and have a chat and a point of human contact between two people.
"I see that this is slowly disappearing, but it is very important for our lives."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Do students want to have debates?
Or stop other people from speaking?
Free speech - too much of it or too little of it - has become one of the thorniest and most emotive subjects for universities.
At what point do strongly held views become extremism or hate speech?
There have been violent flashpoints, particularly in US universities, about what can be said about race, gender and sexuality.
And when does the ultra-liberal assertion of "safe spaces" and limits on language become intolerant and controlling?
Or are these just first-world problems, missing the point about what freedom is really about?
So as new academic terms begin, where are the significant battlegrounds?
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption 'It gets lonely': Being conservative on a liberal campus

1) In Hong Kong, students are under pressure to stop putting up posters and flying banners promoting independence from China.
University campuses are being told that this is not an issue of freedom of speech, but an attack on the principle of Hong Kong's "one country, two systems" relationship with China.
The posters are put up by students on "democracy walls", but authorities say this is an "abuse" of freedom.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Security for a campus speech at Berkeley cost the university $600,000

2) The dollar price of free speech: The University of California, Berkeley, was a cradle of the "free speech movement" in the United States in the 1960s, when students were protesting against the Vietnam war.
It's still on the front line of debates about free speech.
Right-wing commentator Ben Shapiro spoke at Berkeley this month, drawing angry protests from opponents.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Torches have been banned at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville

The university authorities said the security operation around the event cost them $600,000 (440,000).
Another right-wing free speech event, also likely to provoke another protest, is planned for the autumn.
3) Looking west or east?
: The Central European University in Budapest in Hungary has been at the centre of an international struggle, which the university says could see it being shut down.
The university, originally funded by the liberal philanthropist George Soros, says it is being targeted by an unsympathetic, nationalist government.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Protesters in Budapest want to protect the threatened Central European University

Hungary's government says the university needs to comply with new higher education regulations - and negotiations in the United States have been trying to break the deadlock.
4) Illiberal liberals?
: Republican lawmakers in the US state of Ohio are trying to put campus free speech into legislation - challenging what they see as excessive political correctness.
They warn that a "mentality is creeping into our culture that views disagreeable speech as inherently hateful, or even violent".
They want to stop universities setting up designated "free speech zones" on campus, where controversial opinions can be aired, arguing that the whole university should be open to free speech.
5) Torch ban: After the confrontations between torch-carrying white supremacists and protesters at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, the universities have clarified that carrying such "open flames" will not be permitted by the campus police.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption US campuses have seen conflicts over what views should be allowed to be expressed

It shows the power of the symbol in arguments over free speech, with the burning torches evoking images of the Ku Klux Klan and far-right rallies.
There are other measures toughening up security, but university authorities say that carrying "open flame devices" will be prohibited.
6) Turkey trial: The trial of a university lecturer accused of terror-related charges began last week in Turkey.
Nuriye Gulmen, and a primary school teacher also facing charges, have been on a hunger strike protest and were not present at the court in Ankara, with supporters warning of their ill-health.
They lost their jobs in a crackdown that followed the failed coup attempt against Turkey's president last year.
Their case has become a symbol of the 150,000 people claiming to have been sacked or suspended since the coup attempt.
7) Carving out an argument: US universities have been caught in a series of symbolic battles over statues, the names of buildings and what constitutes campus freedom.
Much of this has been about representations of race and identity.
Image copyright EPA Image caption Hong Kong students are being told to take down posters and banners calling for independence

Yale has decided that it needs to remove a 1920s carving from one of its buildings which "depicts a Puritan settler holding a musket pointed toward the head of a Native American".
The university says leaving it in place could create the "unintended effect" of endorsing an image which shows a "scene of warfare and colonial violence toward local Native American inhabitants".
The push for gender neutrality has also seen the university switch away from the traditional term "freshman" for new students to using "first year".
8) Chelsea Manning, imprisoned after giving government information to Wikileaks, was named as a visiting fellow at the Institute of Politics at Harvard Kennedy School last week.
But two days later the university rescinded the appointment describing it as a "mistake".
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Harvard reversed its decision to offer a post to Chelsea Manning

Harvard said in appointing her they wanted to hear from people who "significantly influenced events in the world even if they do not share our values".
This raised the recurrent issue about being free to hear opposing views.
But after ex-acting CIA director Michael Morell resigned from his post at the university over the decision, Harvard reversed her appointment.
9) "My job is not to make you feel comfortable."
The University of Oxford vice chancellor, Louise Richardson, warned fellow university leaders that they had a responsibility to protect free speech on campus.
She told them that students needed to confront views with which they disagreed, even if it meant addressing attitudes that made them "uncomfortable" or they found offensive.
Image copyright EPA Image caption Should universities focus on protecting free speech or preventing provocation?
But she then became embroiled in a row over whether the example she used showed a lack of opposition to homophobia, with calls for an apology and clarifications that she had been "completely misconstrued".
10) North Korea: What are their worries about free movement?
A private, English-language university in the country, the Pyongyang University of Science and Technology, has been struggling with getting overseas staff through the US travel ban, but opened as planned this term.
Meanwhile Kim Il-sung University, working on a technology project forecasting exchange rates, has only "success" to report.
More from Global education

Ideas for the Global education series?
Get in touch.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Toyota blazed a trail in hybrid car design with its Prius

Are electric cars really about to take over from the old-fashioned internal combustion engine?
Judging by some of the headlines we've seen recently, you could be forgiven for thinking petrol and diesel engines were about to be consigned to the scrap heap.
Yet the reality is rather different.
There is no question that the car industry is undergoing a radical change.
At this year's Frankfurt Motor Show - currently under way in the German city - the buzzword throughout the cavernous exhibition halls has been "electrification".
The day before the show, for example, Volkswagen said it would build electrified versions of every model in its range - including those sold under the Audi, Skoda, Seat and Porsche brands - by 2030.
The same evening, Mercedes' parent company Daimler said it would have electrified versions of its own models by 2022.
Image copyright EPA Image caption It's not just new cars, countries will need to invest in new infrastructures for fuelling electric vehicles

Other companies, including Volvo, Jaguar Land Rover and Honda have made similar pledges.
These are undoubtedly ambitious plans - but it is important to recognise their limitations.
They are not saying they will get rid of diesel or petrol cars completely.
They are simply promising to make electrified versions of them available.
It is also important to recognise what "electrified" actually means.
It can, of course, refer to fully electric battery powered vehicles.
But it can also be used to describe hybrids - and hybrids come in many forms.
A plug-in hybrid, for example, has a large battery capacity and is often capable of running entirely on electric power at least part of the time, though it will have a petrol engine as well.
One type of plug-in hybrid, often referred to as a range-extended EV, is essentially an electric car with a small petrol engine that acts as an on-board generator.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Mercedes unveils its F1-derived hybrid hypercar

A strong or full hybrid, like the Toyota Prius, uses a relatively powerful electric motor alongside a conventional engine, but you don't need to plug it in for a recharge.
A mild hybrid, meanwhile, is effectively a conventional car, equipped with a small electric motor that allows the engine to shut down temporarily when the car is stopped at traffic lights, for example.
It can also be used to improve acceleration and power auxiliary systems.
To fulfil their commitments, carmakers could simply offer a range of mild hybrids.
They are cheaper to produce than full hybrids, yet they can offer significant benefits in terms of performance and fuel consumption.
More and more cars are already being built in this way.
Although their pledges may sound a bit more dramatic than they really are, it is true that carmakers are investing a great deal of money in new electric models.
Volkswagen, for example, says that by 2025, one in four of its cars could be battery powered.
BMW says it will be offering 12 pure-electric models by the same date.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption "A hydrogen society needs to be created," says Toyota's Johan van Zyl

So what is driving the move towards electric vehicles?
There are several factors at play.
The launch of the Tesla Model S in 2012 proved that electric cars could perform as well as their petrol equivalents and have a decent battery range, albeit at a high price.
Since then the cost of lithium-ion batteries has fallen significantly, while battery management technology has improved, making that kind of performance more affordable.
Secondly, anti-pollution legislation is being tightened in key markets.
Here in Europe, for example, there will be new limits in force for emissions of carbon dioxide from 2021.
Those limits are much stricter than the current ones, and they are based on the average level of pollution produced by a manufacturer's entire fleet.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption From 2021 there will be new limits on carbon dioxide emissions in Europe

So by producing zero-emissions cars, manufacturers will find it much easier to meet the targets.
The same logic applies to building more hybrids.
Both of these factors were already affecting the major manufacturers' long term thinking, when in September 2015, another factor came into play.
The diesel emissions scandal cast an unwelcome spotlight on the industry - exposing not just sharp practice, but the fact that diesel cars in particular routinely produced far more harmful pollution than official figures would suggest.
The result was a backlash from politicians and consumers - while Volkswagen, the architect of the scandal, tried to restore its reputation by becoming a leader in electric car technology.
As the VW Group chief executive Matthias Mueller told me in Frankfurt: "We've got the message of course.
Consumers want clean vehicles.
People want clean air, and we want to make our contribution."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption VW is still having to deal with the aftermath of the diesel emissions scandal

Electrification was on the cards long before the VW scandal erupted.
But the events of two years ago may well have helped to accelerate the process.
Now, it seems that carmakers are making a virtue out of a necessity, trying to gain some useful PR mileage from a process that was, in reality, more or less inevitable.
So, too, are politicians.
Talk of banning petrol and diesel cars may sound dramatic, draconian even.
But here in the UK, for example, the proposed ban doesn't cover hybrids.
Industry experts say that by 2040 - the date when the ban is due to take effect - it is highly unlikely there will be any non-hybrid cars left on the market anyway.
Then there is the question of infrastructure.
More Technology of Business

Image copyright Getty Images

There are currently about 7,300 charging points for electric cars in the UK, and the number is increasing at a rate of about 10 per day, according to ZapMap.
Globally, the figure is around two million, according to the International Energy Agency.
Clearly, if millions of petrol and diesel cars are to be replaced by electric versions, then we will need a huge investment in charging infrastructure, or they won't be going anywhere.
They will also need batteries - a lot of batteries.
And the power to charge them has to be generated somewhere.
That will take time and money.
Meanwhile, hybrid cars offer a convenient and effective stop-gap.
As BMW's chief executive Harald Krueger puts it, petrol and diesel cars "are not dead yet".
"You will see a transition time, with investments in combustion engines - petrol engines, diesel engines, very efficient engines," he says.
"But long term, we will see sustainable mobility with e-mobility."
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Audi's Aicon autonomous electric concept - but will such concepts really become reality soon?
VW Group's Matthias Mueller agrees.
"There will be a coexistence between internal combustion engines and electric drive systems for a certain period.
I can't tell you how long that will be," he says.
"And that's because we do have to get the right infrastructure in place... we have to create the battery capacity.
"We're talking about enormous capacity here, and it has yet to be created."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption China is experiencing a growing problem of financial fraud

Li Wenxing was starting a new life.
In May, the young university graduate left his home in rural China on the offer of work with a software company in the city of Tianjin.
But the job was a scam and Mr Li was swept into the web of a gang running a pyramid scheme.
Two months later he was dead.
The tragedy, which is being investigated, sparked national outrage and has illuminated the growing problem of financial fraud and its devastating impact on communities in China.
"It's almost an epidemic, especially in rural areas," says Violet Ho, senior managing director at Kroll.
Pyramid schemes

Pyramid schemes are flourishing in parts of the country where education levels are low.
The schemes prey on the vulnerable, typically young people and the elderly, with the promise of employment or lucrative returns for direct sales of products like cosmetics or health supplements.
Victims are assured of great fortune if they recruit more investors into the operation.
"They give the illusion to naive people that they can get rich quickly without risk," says Ms Ho, who investigates financial systems and advises on China.
Peer-to-peer lending and virtual currencies have fuelled the spread of other investing scams, luring victims with little financial knowledge.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Parts of rural China have been particularly hard hit by financial scams

Pyramid - and Ponzi - schemes rely on attracting a constant stream of new investors, and some of the funds raised are paid to earlier backers.
Ms Ho says the Chinese swindles are distinct from frauds typically seen in Western societies due to the lack of sophistication of the investors involved.
Victims have sunk everything they have - borrowing money and even selling their houses - on the promise of even bigger returns.
Chinese social media site Weibo is awash with talk of pyramid schemes.
"I've lost count of the people who've been trapped", said one user.
Social problem

It's a social problem the government is fighting to contain.
Victor Shih, associate professor in political economy and China expert at the University of California San Diego, says a combination of factors have spurred the spread of these scams.
"The rapid proliferation of pyramid schemes is caused by high growth in living costs, especially housing costs, which enticed many to look for higher returns - and previously light regulation at the local level," Prof Shih says.
Under pressure to grow their economies, local governments had in the past endorsed some dubious investment schemes - without properly understanding them - on the belief they would deliver strong returns and spur growth.
"Pyramid schemes were [one popular idea] which they thought could keep driving economic growth," says Prof Ning Zhu, deputy dean of the National Institute of Financial Research at Tsinghua University.
"I don't think this is happening any more," he adds.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Low levels of financial literacy in China has helped fuel the spread of pyramid schemes

Government crackdown

Authorities are paying more attention.
The government acknowledges the number of big pyramid scheme cases has shot up, and that organisers are using various channels to lure and cheat unsuspecting Chinese out of their money and assets.
"Pyramid schemes directly harm the market's economic order and social harmony and stability," Beijing said in a recent statement.
China is carrying out three months of co-ordinated action to investigate and clean-up the practice of pyramid selling.
As part of the crackdown, more than 100 arrests were made in southern China last month, targeting individuals over their suspected links to a 360m yuan (42.3m) pyramid scheme.
Authorities had at least one major bust last year - breaking up a 50bn yuan online finance scam which was suspected of defrauding 900,000 investors.
And while there may be more reaction from the government - the number of pyramid schemes investigated in 2016 jumped 19% on the previous year - the tactics of the con artists at work in China appear to be getting more insidious.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The government says pyramid schemes harm Chinese society

Sinister tactics

Days before Li Wenxing died, the young man reportedly told his family "No matter who calls for money, don't give it to them."
Soon after arriving in Tianjin Mr Li became distant, hard to reach by phone and began asking friends for loans, according to Reuters.
Mr Li was found to have drowned in a small pond outside of Tianjin, the report said.
Police said he had been involved in a pyramid scam and investigations are continuing.
Kroll's Violet Ho says the methods like the extortion believed to have been used by the group in Mr Li's case are common.
She says scams in China have become more sinister as organisers illegally detain people and use intimidation tactics on victims, bringing the problem to a "different level".
Image copyright Getty Images

As many as 400,000 passengers across the EU could have flights with Ryanair cancelled between now and the end of October.
The airline said on Saturday it would cancel 40-50 flights every day for the next six weeks, after it "messed up" the planning of pilot holidays.
All of Ryanair's flights are short or medium-haul, and the vast majority are to destinations within the EU, meaning that passengers are entitled to some very specific rules on compensation.
On its website the airline says: "We understand that flight cancellations may cause distress, and we will accommodate your option of choice wherever possible, while complying with EU Regulation 261/2004."
What are my options if my flight is cancelled?
You can apply for a refund.
Even if it is only the outbound portion of the flight that is cancelled, you can still get a refund for the return leg, assuming you do not want to use it.
Or you can chose an alternative flight - perhaps on an earlier or later date.
In most cases Ryanair will offer you another flight with them.
However, the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) says that if an alternative airline is flying there "significantly sooner", then you have the right to be booked onto a different airline.
Ryanair is offering alternative flights/refunds via this page.
However, chief executive Michael O'Leary has said that Ryanair would not book passengers onto flights with rival carriers.
"We will not pay for flights on other airlines, no.
It is not part of the EU261 entitlement," he said, referring to European passenger rights legislation covering cancelled flights.
Image copyright Getty Images

Can I claim compensation for the inconvenience?
You can claim compensation - but it is based strictly on the time of your actual arrival compared to when you originally expected to arrive.
It also depends when Ryanair told you about the cancellation.
If it gave you more than 14 days' notice, it does not have to pay any compensation at all.
However, so far all passengers have been given less than a week's warning.
If Ryanair books you onto a flight with another airline, you are still entitled to compensation.
What if I have received less than 14 days' notice?
If your re-booked flight arrives more than four hours later than the flight you were originally booked on, you can claim 250 euros - around 220.
For flights over 1,500km, known as medium-haul, that goes up to 400 euros - around 350.
However, if the new flight re-routes you via another destination, and you end up with a longer flight as a result - you can still claim compensation, but at a lower rate.
If you are flying on a short-haul flight, and the re-routed flight is at least two hours late, you can claim 125 euros - around 110.
If a medium-haul re-routed flight is at least three hours late, you can claim 200 euros - around 176 - depending on the time of take-off.
What if I have received less than seven days' notice?
If you receive less than a week's notice of the cancellation, the criteria for compensation are tighter.
In this case, your short-haul flight only needs to arrive more than two hours after your original scheduled arrival time for you to claim 250 euros.
If flying more than 1,500km, and the flight is at least three hours late, you can claim 400 euros.
If a new short-haul flight is re-routed, taking off more than one hour before your original flight, but arriving two hours after it, you can claim 125 euros.
A re-routed medium-haul flight needs to arrive at least three hours late for compensation to be paid.
In such a case passengers would get 200 euros.
Image copyright Getty Images

Should I get a refund and arrange my own alternative flight?
You are free to do this, but you will then lose out on any right to compensation.
If you cancel the flight completely, remember that you may not even get a refund.
I don't know whether my flight has been cancelled: What should I do?
So far Ryanair has only published the details of a few of the flights that have been cancelled.
However, it has promised the details of all the cancelled flights will be on its website over the next 24 hours.
This will leave a lot of people not knowing whether their trip will go ahead.
But if you decide to cancel or change your flight without knowing whether it will be cancelled officially, you have no special rights under the European Regulations.
The CAA advises passengers to go through the airline for that reason.
Am I entitled to additional help?
If you find yourself stranded at the airport, you might also be entitled to an extra payment to cover short-term costs.
For example, if you have had to wait an extra day to take the new flight you should be given accommodation, food, drink and access to communications - such as the cost of a couple of telephone calls.
Image copyright Habito Image caption Daniel's career has been eventful

Daniel Hegarty, the founder of mortgage broker app Habito, does not have the physique of a tech geek.
The 35-year-old's arms are muscled and densely covered in tattoos, a legacy from his time, perhaps, as a successful guitarist.
Even by the standards of tech entrepreneurs, Daniel's background is unconventional.
Leaving school in London before he was 16, he says: "I guess I was a bit of a rebel.
I wanted to do what I wanted to do.
"I just took days off, and when the local guitar shop offered me extra days' work, I decided I'd cut down on my school days."
Then he got suspended.
But despite departing secondary education without any qualifications, it was not the disaster it would have been for most.
A talented guitarist, his punk group, Serum, got signed by the same record label as Boy George, and went on the road earning the princely sum of 100 a week per band member.
Image copyright Daniel Hegarty Image caption Daniel spent a decade as a professional musician and songwriter

Before he was 20-years-old, Daniel was living in Los Angeles.
But he gave up on becoming famous in his own right to instead write for, and play, with headline acts such as Robbie Williams, S Club 7, Pink and the Sugababes.
After some 10 years of this, he'd had enough: "It's a strange job.
To make money you have to make a certain amount of bad music.
"And I came to the conclusion I was tired of staring at the back of teenage pop stars."
So he moved back to the UK in 2007 with nothing to do, before a music industry contact came to the rescue.
"A friend of mine was an opera singer who had a pop hit as Tina B," he says.
"I called Tina and asked if she knew anyone who could give someone without any qualifications a job.
"She said she knew a couple of crazy tech guys who needed people."
A meeting over a cup of coffee got him in.
The crazy tech guys turned out to be nucleus of the subsequently much-criticised payday loan lender Wonga.
"There were just a handful of us," says Daniel.
"Between us, we did whatever needed doing."
At Wonga he discovered that he did, in fact, have another string to his bow other than music.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Daniel Hegarty: "I didn't chose Wonga, Wonga chose me"

"It quite quickly emerged I was a massive geek," he says.
"I'd spend my evenings reading text books on pure maths, and doing online courses from Stanford University [in California].
"Within a couple of months I was running a lot of the tech stuff."
But after a warm welcome from borrowers, Wonga's name became increasingly toxic.
In 2014 it wrote off 220m of debts for 330,000 struggling customers after discussions with regulators, and put in place new checks as to whether people could afford the loans they were taking out.
Was Daniel embarrassed to say he'd worked at Wonga?
"I didn't choose Wonga, Wonga chose me."
But, as one of its designers, could he be accused of failing to assess the risks properly?
"My job was fundamentally building the website - how to get someone to show up and share their info, and how to get the money lent when it was wanted, and collected when it was due."
He left as Wonga mushroomed to an international business with 1,000 employees, and he was, again, spending too much time on the road.
Once more at a loose end, Daniel did what rock musicians are often thought to do: "I sat in my pants on my sofa."
Image copyright Daniel Hegarty Image caption The idea for Habito came from Daniel's attempt to buy his first home

The spark of the idea for online mortgage brokerage Habito came from his attempt to buy his first home.
Daniel nearly lost out on the property after a series of mistakes by his mortgage broker.
He says they put down his wife's name, twice, alongside his own name.
This held up the process for 10 days, and when the form was corrected the third, extra name that was removed was not the duplicated wife, but his own.
Now it appeared his wife had sparked a clone who was also part of the loan.
The seller was on the brink of pulling out.
Daniel says: "I thought deeply about what I could do for a couple of months, and this is the best I came up with.
But I knew nothing about mortgages."
So he started studying the industry.
He spoke to mortgage brokers, lenders, and regulators in order to understand how it all worked, and he set about building Habito.
One criticism of the Habito app is that it removes the human touch.
Daniel says that at Habito there is a point at which you can speak to a real human being, but critics still say such an online-based system is less likely to find the perfect type of product for the borrower.
Jonathan Harris, director of independent mortgage broker Anderson Harris, says: "There are so many additional criteria that are required nowadays in a mortgage market search.
For example, the type of employment/self-employment, how income is made up, the type of contract, the type of property.
"While we welcome anything that speeds up the often torturously slow mortgage application process, face-to-face advice or over the phone will have a place for a while yet - although mortgage lenders and brokers need to improve their technological offerings."
Image copyright Habito Image caption Habito has now lent 250m to 50,000 borrowers, says Daniel

As it stands, the world of mortgage broking is highly fragmented.
The UK's biggest player, London and Country, has only 6% of the domestic market to itself, so there is plenty of scope for challengers.
Daniel says there is simply "no visible limit to Habito's growth".
The company has been going for 16 months, he says, and every month it has grown 20%, so "every week is our busiest ever".
He says the London-based company has so far lent 250m to 50,000 borrowers, and employees have grown from eight to 45.
Daniel adds that running a proper business, initially seemed as unreal as being a rock star.
"At first I felt like I was dreaming, going round telling people I was the 'made up' CEO of a 'made-up' business."
But he says he can still be awkward.
"I will do what I want to do".
Daniel has also been able to return an early favour.
Remember the former opera-pop star?
She's now working for him as his corporate lawyer.
"There are quite a few second lifers in my business," he says.
Image copyright Getty Images

In Shanghai, an Uber driver logs into an online forum.
He is not looking for a passenger.
He is looking for someone to pretend to be a passenger.
He finds a willing taker.
He pretends to collect the customer and drop her at the airport.
In fact, they never meet.
Then he goes online and sends her the agreed fee: about $1.60 (1.20).
Or perhaps the driver goes a step further, making up the other person as well as the journey.
He goes to the online marketplace Taobao, and buys a hacked smartphone.
That lets him create multiple fake identities.
He uses one to arrange a ride with himself.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Uber invites customers to rate drivers, and drivers to rate customers

Why?
Because someone's willing to pay him to give people lifts in his car.
Rational economic incentives

Investors in Uber and their rivals have run up billions of dollars of losses - in China, and elsewhere - paying people to share car journeys.
Naturally, they're trying to stamp out the imaginary journeys, but they're convinced subsidising genuine rides is a smart idea.
This all seems bizarre, perverse, even.
But everyone involved is rationally pursuing economic incentives.
To see what's going on, we have to understand a phenomenon that's spawned many buzzwords: "crowd-based capitalism", "collaborative consumption", "the sharing economy", "the trust economy".
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy highlights the inventions, ideas and innovations which have helped create the economic world in which we live.
It is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
Suppose I'm about to drive myself from downtown Shanghai to the airport.
I occupy only one seat in my car.
Now suppose you live a block away, and you also need to catch a flight.
Why don't I give you a lift?
You could pay me a modest sum, less than you'd pay for some other mode of transport.
You're better off.
I'm better off.
There are two big reasons why this might not happen.
The first, and most obvious, is if neither of us knows the other exists.
'Coincidental wants'

Until recently, the only way you could advertise your desire for a lift would be to stand at a junction, holding up a sign saying "airport".
It's not very practical - especially since the plane won't wait.
This function of matching people who have coincidental wants is among the most powerful ways the internet is reshaping the economy.
Traditional markets work perfectly well for some goods and services, but they're less useful when the goods and services are urgent or obscure.
Consider the plight of Mark Fraser.
It was 1995.
Mark Fraser gave lots of presentations, and he really wanted a laser pointer - they were new, and cool, but also forbiddingly expensive.
Image copyright EBAY Image caption For the first time, eBay connected people who wanted stuff with those who wanted to sell it

Fraser, however, was an electronics geek.
He was confident that if he could get his hands on a broken laser pointer, he could fix it.
But where on earth would he find a broken laser pointer?
The answer, now, is obvious - try Taobao, or eBay, or some other online marketplace.
Back then, eBay had only just started.
Its very first sale: Mark Fraser bought a broken laser pointer.
Mark Fraser was taking a bit of a risk.
He didn't know the seller.
He simply had to trust that they wouldn't simply pocket his $14.83 (11.20) then disappear.
For other transactions, the stakes are higher.
That's the second reason I might not give you a lift to Shanghai airport.
I've no idea who you are.
Perhaps you're planning to attack me and steal my car?
You might doubt my motives, too - perhaps I'm a serial killer.
Enablers of trust

After all, hitch-hiking was a popular pursuit a few decades ago, but fell out of fashion after some well-publicised murders.
Trust is an essential component of markets - so essential that we often don't even notice it, like a fish doesn't notice water.
In developed economies, enablers of trust are everywhere: brands, money-back guarantees, and of course repeat transactions with a seller who can be easily located.
But the new sharing economy lacks those enablers.
Why should we get into a stranger's car - or buy a stranger's laser pointer?
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption AirBnB emphasises the personal connection between hosts and guests

In 1997, eBay introduced a feature that helped solve the problem: Seller Feedback.
According to Jim Griffith, eBay's first customer service representative, "no-one had ever seen anything like [it]".
The idea of both parties rating each other after a transaction has become ubiquitous.
You buy something online - you rate the seller, the seller rates you.
You use a lift-sharing service, like Uber - you rate the driver, the driver rates you.
You stay in an AirBnB - you rate the host, the host rates you.
A few positive reviews set our mind at ease about a stranger.
Jim Griffith says he's "not so sure [eBay] would have grown without [seller feedback]".
Spare capacity

Online matching platforms would still exist, of course - eBay already did - but perhaps they'd be more like hitch-hiking today: a niche pursuit for the unusually adventurous, not a mainstream activity that's transforming whole sectors of the economy.
Platforms like Uber and AirBnB, eBay and TaskRabbit create real value.
Image copyright Alamy Image caption TaskRabbit connects customers with so-called "Taskers" to help with a variety of odd jobs

But there are losers.
For all the touchy-feeliness of the buzzwords - "collaborative", "sharing", "trust" - these models aren't just heart-warming stories of neighbours coming together to borrow each other's power drills.
They can easily lead to cut-throat capitalism.
More from Tim Harford:

How the smartphone became so smart

Just Google it: The student project that changed the world

Money via mobile: The M-Pesa revolution

The surprising ways video games have shaped the economy

Established hotels and taxi companies are aghast at competition from AirBnB and Uber.
Is that just an incumbent trying to suppress competition?
Or are they right when they complain that the new platforms are ignoring important regulations?
Risk of discrimination?
Many countries have rules to protect workers, like guaranteed hours or working conditions or a minimum wage.
And many people on platforms like Uber aren't just monetising spare capacity.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption A banner reading "No tourist flats" hangs from a balcony to protest against holiday rental apartments for tourists in Barcelona

They're trying to make a living, without the protections of a formal job - perhaps because a company liked Uber competed them out of a job.
Some regulations protect customers, too - for example, from discrimination.
Hotels can't legally refuse you a room if you're, say, a same-sex couple.
But hosts on AirBnb can choose to turn down guests after seeing not just your feedback but your photos.
AirBnb builds trust by emphasising the personal connection, and that means showing people prominent pictures of who they're dealing with.
That also invites people to act on their personal prejudices, consciously or otherwise.
People from ethnic minorities have been shown to suffer as a result.
What should be the 51st Thing?
Image copyright Getty Images

Tim Harford has discussed 50 things which he argues have made the modern economy.
Help choose the 51st thing by voting for one of these listener suggestions:

The credit card

Glass

Global Positioning System (GPS)

Irrigation

The pencil

The spreadsheet

You can vote on the 50 Things That Made the Modern Economy programme website.
Voting closes at 1200 GMT Friday 6 October 2017, and the winning 51st Thing will be announced in a special podcast on 28 October 2017.
How online matching platforms should be regulated is a dilemma causing lawmakers around the world to scratch their heads.
It matters because it's potentially huge business, especially in emerging markets where there isn't yet a culture of owning things like cars.
And it's a business with network effects: the more people use a platform, the more attractive it becomes.
That's why Uber and its rivals - Didi Chuxing in China, Grab in southeast Asia, Ola in India - have invested massively in subsidising rides and giving credits to new customers: they wanted to get big first.
And, naturally, some drivers have been tempted to defraud them.
Remember how they did it?
By using an online forum to find a willing fake customer, or an online marketplace to buy a hacked smartphone.
Matching people with the particular things they want really is useful.
Tim Harford writes the Financial Times's Undercover Economist column.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
THE British Labour Party is in buoyant mood at its annual conference, expecting to be in power very soon.
And it has already started to think about the consequences, including a possible run on the pound if it takes office.
But not everyone thinks this is likely; Simon Wren-Lewis, an economist, challenged people to think of a serious economic reason why stering would fall on the election of a Labour government.
Well, this blogger can think of several.
Labour plans to increase the rate of tax on corporate profits from (what will be) 17% to 26%.
That means the profits available to overseas investors will be reduced accordingly.
They will demand a lower price to compensate for this lower returnthis will either come in the form of a fall in the stockmarket or in the pound, or probably a bit of both.
Labour plans to nationalise various utilities (railways, water, the Royal Mail and some energy) and to cancel some private finance initiatives (PFI), by bringing them back into the public sector.
It will compensate shareholders and PFI contractors with government bonds.
It is safe to say that most investors will try to offload those bonds in the market.
Overseas investors will demand a higher yield, or a lower pound, or a bit of both, to compensate for the risk of holding more British bonds.
Further to this last point, John McDonnell, the shadow chancellor, said on the BBC's Today programme that Parliament would decide on the market value of any compensation, while Jeremy Corbyn told Channel 4's Jon Snow last night that the great advantage of rewriting PFI contracts is that government bonds carry a lower interest rate than the contract agreement.
Both suggest an element of appropriation in the deal.
(On PFI, if you repay a 1,000 contract yielding 6% with 1,000 of bonds yielding 2%, you are making the other party worse off.)
This would fall foul of the European Court of Human Rights, which protects property owners against appropriation and requires them to be offered reasonable compensation via a method that is manifestly reasonable so there would be court action.
Nevertheless, foreign investors might understandably conclude that a government which appropriates property in one area might do so in another; they would demand compensation for this risk in the form of a higher yield or lower pound.
On top of the extra bonds issued by Labour to pay for nationalisation, its tax and spending plans are likely to lead to a much greater deficit.
The Institute for Fiscal Studies said its plans would not raise as much money as they claim even in the short run, let alone the long run.
This would mean more bond issuance; again, overseas investors would demand a higher yield or lower pound to compensate.
Labour has a number of plans that may affect business investment ; reducing labour market flexibility, raising the minimum wage, capping executive pay in companies that bid for public contracts, higher taxes on executives, creating extra public holidays etc.
In aggregate, these will make the country less attractive for foreign direct investment at a time when Britain will already be struggling because of its intention to exit the EU, which makes Britain less appealing to companies that want to have a European base.
As with points 1-4, this will be a problem because Britain has a current account deficit which means it needs to attract foreign capital every year; a lower pound (or higher yields) will be needed to entice the hot money that will replace the FDI.
Those are just five reasons.
One can think of more; Labours anti-American foreign policy and general hostility towards globalisation might also drive away investors, particularly American ones, who have seen Britain (and London, in particular) as a welcoming place.
But all of these reasons revolve around the idea of a risk premium; a Labour government involves a greater risk and thus investors will be willing to buy British assets at a lower price.
Does this represent a sinister move by speculators to undermine democracy?
Not really.
Fund managers have the interests of their clients to consider and need to generate the highest returns; if a British government threatens to cut those returns, it simply becomes less attractive.
For the last 40 years or so, Britain has been a welcoming place for international capital; under Labour, which explicitly wants to return to a pre-Thatcherite system, it would be less so.
The whole aim of the government is to rebalance the economy in favour of workers, and against capital (rent controls were the centrepiece of his latest speech ); voters might welcome this, but you can't expect owners of capital to like it.
In a way, this is very similar to the reason why the pound fell after the referendum vote.
The risk of holding British assets went up, so the price fell.
Nothing is certain, of course, in currency markets.
It could be that, by the time Labour gets into power, the current government has so mucked up the Brexit process that the pound has already taken a beating.
Indeed, such a mess might be the main reason Labour wins office.
Alternatively, the threat of a Labour government might lead to the pound falling before the election, giving it the scope to appreciate afterwards (the old saying is sell on the rumour, buy on the news).
Or perhaps Brexit will not have happened by the time of the next election and the pound might rally on the hope that Labour opts for a softer exit, perhaps staying in the single market or the customs union (although Mr Corbyn does not seem keen).
Mr Wren-Lewis thinks that the pound will rise, not fall on Labours election.
That is because Labours looser fiscal policy will be accompanied by a much tighter monetary policy from the Bank of England; these higher interest rates will attract foreign capital, and this will offset any capital flight.
Tighter monetary policy would restrain economic growth, something a Labour government might not be happy about.
Mr McDonnell has committed himself to maintaining the independence of the Bank of England.
In the past, however, he has suggested amending the Bank of Englands mandate to focus on more targets than inflation; a changed mandate might lead to reduced room for increasing rates in response to inflation.
This would be another reason why overseas investors would be more cautious about holding British assets (and thus lead to a lower pound).
Perhaps higher rates would be sufficient to offset the risk premium effect, although one suspects that rates will have to be quite a lot higher to compensate.
So this argument effectively boils down to: Dont worry about a lower pound, your mortgage rate will be a lot higher.
Im not sure this is an election-winning slogan.
WHO wants mediocrity?
That is what a lot of people say when the subject of index-tracking, or passive fund management, comes up.
They would rather choose a fund manager (an active manager in the jargon) who tries to beat the market by picking the best stocks.
It does sound like a good idea.
The tricky bit is finding the right manager.
The temptation is to look at past performance but fund managers rarely beat the market for long .
The average fund manager is always going to struggle to beat the market (this is a separate argument from whether markets are efficient).
That is because the index reflects the performance of the average investor before costs.
In a world dominated by professional fund managers, there aren't enough amateurs for the professionals to beat.
Even the hedge funds, those supposed masters of the universe, haven't been able to do it; Warren Buffett looks set to win a $1m bet on the issue.
But the last 12 months have seen a revival of the fortunes of active managers and there is talk that the cycle has turned .
Individual stocks seem less correlated with each other than during the 2010-2015 period; small stocks, which aren't included in some indices, are doing well.
In Britain, a very high proportion of funds beat the market over the last year; US funds also seem to have done so well.
The table, from S&P Dow Jones Indices, shows how many European-domiciled funds (investing in a wide range of markets) have managed to beat the market over one, three, five and 10 years.
Eight out of 19 categories managed the feat over one year, but that drops to four categories over three years, three over five years and none over 10 years.
In most categories over 10 years, you had a less than one-in-five chance of finding a fund that beat the market.
So why do so many people think they can pick a winner?
The answer may be found in a new paper from James White, Jeff Rosenbluth and Victor Haghani of Elm Partners that shows people find it very difficult to tell skill from luck.
Suppose you have two coins, one fair and the other biased 60% in favour of heads.
How many parallel tosses would you need to be 95% certain (statistically speaking) of identifying the rigged coin?
They asked 700 financial professionals the question and their median guess was 40.
The actual answer is 143.
If you widen the experiment to three coins, the number rises to 220.
The authors then use a thought experiment, which assumes that 15% of fund managers can generate a post-fee return of 1% a year relative to the market while the other 85% lose 1%.
They put 1% of the portfolio a year into each fund and then shift more to the winners each year, based on the probability that they can continue to outperform.
Even after 10 years, the expected return on this portfolio is -0.6% a year, relative to the index.
There is even more bad news.
At least, a coin doesnt know whether the last result was a head or a tail.
Investment success is affected by past data; other people copy a winning strategy and stocks can move from cheap to expensive as they outperform.
The authors add:

Sadly, the power of past returns to predict the future is even weaker in investing than it is with coin flips.
In the real world, any kind of return-chasing strategy will face additional headwinds, amongst them the fact that when an investment strategy was truly extraordinary in the past, its very discovery will diminish future performance (or even make future returns negative), as more capital is drawn towards it.
This may be the prime reason why investor returns (i.e.
dollar-weighted returns) tend to be significantly below fund returns (i.e.
time-weighted returns).
This doesnt happen with coin flips.
To sum up, you may think you can pick a successful active manager.
But the laws of probability suggest you cant.
FOR many aeroplane enthusiasts, buying a Boeing 747 is the stuff of dreams.
The Queen of the Skies is an icon from the golden age of air travel, a period the 1960s and 1970s when the industry was at its most glamorous.
And owning one would be like having a little piece of aviation history.
Last week that dream shifted slightly closer to reality, albeit only for well-heeled fans.
Three Boeing 747s went up for auction on Taobao, Chinas equivalent of eBay.
The seller is a state court in Shenzhen, which seized the planes when Jade Cargo International, an airline, went bust in 2012.
At first, state officials tried to flog the planes offline at private auctions.
But after six failed attempts, they opened the sale up to public bids.
Offers currently range from 122m yuan ($18.5m) to 135m yuan.
This is not the first time one of the planes has been auctioned online.
Last year Concord Aerospace, a Florida-based firm which buys and sells plane parts, offered a decommissioned 747 on eBay.
Because the engines had been removed, the suggested starting bid was a mere $300,000.
Even so, the plane did not sell.
That is largely because the cost of shipping would have been many times higher than the auction price, explains Mert Balta, Concord Aerospaces founder.
The fact that 747s are ending up on online auction sites is a sign of their waning appeal.
Their share of worldwide available seat milesa measure of total seat capacity and mileageis tumbling.
Both United Airlines and Delta are planning to fly their last scheduled 747 flights by the end of this year.
One reason for this is the 747s inefficiency.
They are heavier than most of the smaller, twin-engine models and so burn more fuel.
On a trip between New York and Los Angeles, for instance, a 747 will consume 30% more fuel per passenger than the smaller, twin-engine Airbus A320.
When oil prices soared in the late-1990s and early-2000s, the 747 became even more expensive to fly.
Another reason is changing patterns in flight schedules, as Gulliver has previously noted .
When the popularity of flying started to boom in the 1980s, airlines began to offer a greater range of take-off times to travellers.
More flights on smaller planes became the norm, rather than a handful on the big 747s.
Though fans may bemoan the loss of an iconic aircraft, some 747s have been given a new lease of life in their retirement.
One was transformed into a noodle restaurant in South Korea (though that too later went bust).
Another has been converted into Jumbo Stay, a hostel near Stockholm airport in Sweden.
Mr Balta even has plans to turn the fuselage of his 747 into caravans and houses.
The Queen of the Skies may be grounded, but she has not been consigned to the scrapheap just yet.
Correction (September 26th, 2017): A previous version of this post referred to China's auction website as Taboo instead of Taobao.
This has now been corrected and autocorrect has been disabled on our computers.
Apologies.
IT WAS 2012I was number 37, says Ashwini, referring to the badge that was pinned on her shirt pocket.
Her task was to go onto the stage and introduce herself to around 70 eligible bachelors and their parents.
Families then conferred and, provided caste and religious background proved no obstacle, would approach the events moderator asking to meet number 37.
At midday girls would wait for prospects to swing by, again with parents on either side.
A brief exchange might establish the potential brides cooking skills or her intention to work after marriage.
If the two sides hit it off, they would exchange copies of their horoscopes.
Nearly 50 men lined up to meet Ashwini that day, speed-dating style.
No one made the cut.
She later married a colleague.
Such gatherings form an important part of the wedding industry, worth around $50bn a year, in a country where arranged marriages continue to be the norm.
India has 440m millennialsroughly, the generation born between 1980 and 1996and a further 390m youngsters have been born since 2000, so there are plenty of anguished parents for marriage facilitators to pitch to.
KPMG, a consultancy, estimates that out of 107m single men and women, 63m are active seekers.
For now, only a tenth surf the internet to find a spouse.
But the number who do is about to explode, argue executives in the marriage-portal business (India has 2,600 such sites).
After Facebook [took off], people are more open about their lives than ever before, which has had a great knock-on effect, says Gourav Rakshit of Shaadi.com, one of Indias oldest matrimonial sites.
Take Matrimony.com, the countrys biggest online matchmaker, which raised $78m in its initial public offering on September 13th.
Its shares began trading this week.
It runs 300-odd websites in 15 languages, catering to different castes and religions.
It has sites for divorcees, the disabled, the affluent (Elite Matrimony) and for those with unfavourable astrological charts, which make it difficult to find a match.
All online firms run a freemium model: upload your profile at no charge and let an algorithm match horoscope details with potential partners filtered by age, caste, education, income and sometimes (alas) complexion.
Or you can pay for features like instant chat or a colourful border around your profile to ensure the algorithm returns you as a top search result.
Such a long list of options means that finding a match on the web can be time-consuming and tedious.
Its like looking for a needle in a haystack, says one suitor.
Predictably, many also complain that online profiles often do not reflect reality.
Outright fakes remain a scourge.
This month a man was arrested in Delhi for extorting over 5m rupees ($77,700) from 15 women by luring them on matrimonial websites.
And no amount of artificial intelligence can yet identify what will make two youngsters click.
Spouseup, a south Indian startup, is undaunted.
It trawls social media to determine a candidates personality and recommends matches by calculating a compatibility score.
Nine-tenths of its 50,000 users are non-resident Indians who usually fly to India for a month or so, scout for partners, settle on one, get hitched and fly back together.
For these time-starved travellers, the machine-led scouring provides an insight that would come from five coffee dates, says Karthik Iyer, the firms founder.
Banihal, which is based in Silicon Valley, relies on a long psychometric questionnaire of around 100 questions to match like-minded partners.
Real-world complements to online efforts can help secure a match.
Some services, such as IITIIMShaadi.com, aimed at people graduating from prestigious universities, also act as conventional wedding-brokers, by meeting prospects on their clients behalf.
The job is no different from that of a headhunter, says Taksh Gupta, its founder.
He charges anywhere between 50,000 and 200,000 rupees for the service.
His most recent catch, after a search lasting over two years, was a husband for a 45-year-old woman from a prestigious university who would settle for no less than an Ivy League groom.
Matrimony.com, too, has over 400 relationship managers and 140 physical outlets.
The opportunity is huge, enthuses Murugavel Janakiraman, boss of Matrimony.com.
Around four-fifths of new customers now come via smartphones, lured by instant alerts about new potential matches and services that match up people in the same town.
But the spread of smartphones also brings competition.
Casual-dating apps are spreading fast.
Tinder, on which decisions about eligibility rarely benefit from parental advice, now counts India as Asias largest, fastest-growing market.
EIGHT months into Donald Trumps presidency, the rules-based system of global trade remains intact.
Threats to impose broad tariffs have come to nothing.
Some ominous investigations into whether imports into America are a national-security threat are on hold.
Mr Trump looks less a hard man than a boy crying wolf.
All the same, supporters of the World Trade Organisation (WTO), the guardian of that rules-based system, are worried.
Other dangers are lurking.
There is more than one way to undermine an institution.
The WTO is meant to be a forum for reaching deals and resolving disputes.
But all 164 members must agree to new rules, and agreement has largely been elusive.
So if members do not like todays rules, as interpreted by judges, they have little prospect of negotiating better ones.
That puts pressure on the WTOs judicial function, the bit that has been working fairly well.
Trouble is brewing at the WTOs court of appeals.
It is meant to have seven serving judges, but has only five and by the end of the year will have just four.
The Americans refuse to start the process of filling the spots, citing systemic concerns.
What seemed an arcane procedural row has become what some call a crisis.
This tension comes at a bad time.
Over recent years the number of disputes has risen both in number (see chart) and complexity.
The court is already dealing with a backlog of cases, which are supposed to take two months.
One appeal from the EU, relating to Airbus, an aircraft manufacturer, is almost a year old.
By the end of 2019 the terms of three more judges will expire, leaving only one.
Three are needed to rule on any individual case.
If the gaps are not filled, the system risks collapse.
Notionally, the Americans object to two procedural irregularities, including the way the most recently departed judges left.
But according to Brendan McGivern, a lawyer in Geneva, neither is a show-stopping problem.
And on September 18th Robert Lighthizer, Americas usually tight-lipped trade representative, outlined a bigger agenda.
To a Washington room packed with foreign-policy wonks, he complained that decisions from WTO judges had diminished what America had bargained for and imposed obligations it had not agreed to when it joined the WTO.
These are long-standing and uniquely American concerns.
Panels at the WTO have repeatedly ruled that the way it calculates defensive duties on imports breaks the rules.
Mr Lighthizer sees this as undermining Americas ability to protect itself from unfair trade.
Many in Washington accuse the WTOs lawyers of overstepping their remit, filling in the gaps where the original rules are silent.
So the American administration seems in effect to be using the judicial appointments to hold the WTO hostage.
Oddly, though, it has been vague about what it wants.
Mr Lighthizers past offers clues.
According to the Wall Street Journal , when he advised Bob Dole, a presidential candidate in 1996, he recommended that a panel of American judges should review any findings against America, which would threaten to quit the WTO after three duds.
This week Mr Lighthizer spoke fondly of the system that preceded the WTO, under which members could block panel rulings.
Bullying the appellate body into ruling in favour of America would undermine its usefulness.
If members no longer think that they will get a fair hearing, they are more likely to take matters into their own hands.
Mr McGivern worries that an American fix to the perceived problem of judicial overreach could undermine the rules-based system, by tampering with the independence of the appellate body.
Some signs suggest that Mr Trumps administration is not planning to ditch the WTO entirely.
It is pursuing two disputes initiated by Barack Obama.
And Mr Lighthizer has said that if he uncovers a breach of Chinas commitments under WTO rules, he will file a dispute.
But he expressed doubt about the WTOs ability either to deal with Chinese mercantilism or to reach any agreements at its next ministerial meeting in December.
Mr Trumps tough-cop trade policy appears to be to threaten tariffs unless he gets his way.
Mr Lighthizers is subtler but perhaps more menacing.
By combining indifference with a ploy to starve the WTO of judges, he is gambling that the WTO needs America more than America needs it.
In both cases the risks are the same: that the rule book will become irrelevant.
Correction (September 22nd): A previous version of this article misstated the number of judges in the WTOs court of appeals due to retire in 2019.
This has been corrected online.
A year earlier than expected, Norways sovereign-wealth fund, the worlds largest, surpassed $1trn in assets on September 19th.
It had gained over $100bn in the past year, thanks in large measure to the global stockmarket boom in 2017: around two-thirds of its assets are held as equities (over 1% of shares globally).
It helps that Norwegians continue to earn fat revenues from pumping North Sea oil and gas, which go to the fund to be invested abroad.
The fund is so big it is becoming a tool for 5m-odd Norwegians to shape values abroad.
It is an increasingly activist shareholder, speaking out on executive pay, ethical behaviour, companies use of water, child labour and more.
Both its size and influence are likely to keep on growing.
THREE-QUARTERS of Americans admit that they search the web, send e-mails and check their social-media accounts in the bathroom.
That is not the only connection between tech and plumbing.
The water and sewage industry offers clues to the vexed question of how to regulate the Silicon Valley platform firms, such as Alphabet, Amazon and Facebook.
The implications are mildly terrifying for the companies, so any tech tycoons reading this column might want to secure a spare pair of trousers.
In America and in Europe a consensus is emerging that big tech firms must be tamed.
Their dominance of services such as search and social media gives them huge economic and political clout.
The $3trn total market value of Americas five biggest tech firms (Apple and Microsoft are the other two) suggests that investors believe they are among the most powerful firms in history, up there with the East India Company and Standard Oil.
Trustbusters in need of instant gratification want to break up the companies, but this might make their services less useful (imagine having ten social-media accounts), and network effects might mean that one of the tiddlers would grow dominant again.
Others want tech firms to license their patents for nothing, as AT&T was required to do in 1956.
This might create startups tomorrow, but will not stop firms exploiting monopolies today.
An alternative is to regulate these companies like utilitiesmonopolies with high market shares that provide an essential service from which it is expensive for consumers to switch.
Here, the water industry is relevant, particularly the concept of a regulated asset base (RAB).
It emerged in the 1990s when Britain was privatising its water firms, borrowing elements from American regulation.
It is an acronym that few in Silicon Valley are aware of.
But from these obscure origins RAB frameworks are now common in Europe and Latin America, used to regulate at least $400bn-worth of power, airport, water and telecoms assets.
The idea is that the monopolists profits should not exceed the level that a competitive market would allow.
That means estimating the cost to an imaginary new entrant of replicating the incumbents assets (this is the RAB) and calculating the profits the newcomer would make if its returns matched its cost of capital.
The actual monopolys earnings should not exceed this amount.
Safeguards are added to ensure the utility is run efficiently, keeping costs low.
Regulators review the framework every few years.
How might utility-style regulation work for Silicon Valley firms?
Consider a thought experiment with Facebook.
Its 1.3bn users pay nothing, but give it their data and control over the adverts they see.
Facebook then sells advertisers targeted access to its users, pulling in $27bn last year.
Imagine that the service were unbundled, giving users control.
All would own their data and could choose whether to sell them to advertisers.
They would also have to pay Facebook a fee to compensate it for the cost of creating and operating the network.
The big question is how much compensationprofitsFacebook and other firms would deserve if they were treated as utilities.
It is possible to get a rough idea.
Assume a cost of capital of 12%a high figure to reflect the risk inherent in tech firms models.
Estimating their RABs is harder.
They have some physical assets such as data centres, but unlike utilities their main resources are not pylons, pipes and property, but software and ideas that they create or acquire by buying rivals.
Only some of these intangibles appear on their balance-sheets; the vast sums spent on research and development (R&D) do not.
But you can reconfigure their balance-sheets as if all their R&D in the past had been recognised as an asset with a 20-year life.
Alphabet and Facebook would have a combined RAB of $160bn.
If their returns were capped at 12%, operating profits would fall by 65% and 81% respectively.
If their services were unbundled, users would benefit.
Using figures from 2016, the average Facebook user would pay $15 a year to the firm for its return on its RAB, but they would pocket $23 from selling advertisers their data and the right to be advertised to.
A Google user would pay $37 a year to Google, but collect $45 from advertisers.
Those are fairly small sums, but richer users with particularly valuable data could make much more.
Bog standard

Regulating tech like water would cause an outcry among investors and in Silicon Valley.
Yet some of the objections do not stack up.
Essential investment would still happena guaranteed 12% return is a handsome reward.
The firms could invest in new technologies that would remain outside the regulated utility.
It would be possible to work out which assets sit abroad and exclude them from the RAB, or to reach arrangements with foreign regulators.
This approach would have shortcomings, though.
Tech moves at the speed of light compared with conventional utilities.
It was only five years ago that investors worried that Facebook would struggle with the shift to mobile phones.
Regulators would be clumsy at coping with rapid change.
And a RAB methodology would not resolve the incendiary issue of whether tech platforms should be responsible for what they publish.
Despite such problems, tech bosses should view regulation as utilities as a long-term risk.
They have two defences.
First, to bundle their services so tightly that it is impossible for outsiders to isolate the products that are monopolies and work out their profits and assets.
Amazon is a master here.
It is unclear how much it makes or has invested in e-commerce (where it is dominant), videos (where it is a challenger), or food (where it is a new entrant).
The second defence is to lobby Washington.
The lesson from Americas veteran oligopolistsairline, telecoms and health-care companiesis that you can manipulate and dance around the regulatory system to ensure high profits.
For tech firms, financial obfuscation and cronyism are the most effective ways to ensure their monopoly profits do not go down the drain.
IN RECENT days China set the record for the worlds fastest long-distance bullet train, which hurtled between Beijing and Shanghai at 350kph (217mph).
This was a triumph of industrial policy as much as of engineering.
Chinas first high-speed trains started rolling only a decade ago; today the country has 20,000km of high-speed track, more than the rest of the world combined.
China could not have built this without a strong government.
The state provided funds for research, land for tracks, aid for loss-making railways, subsidies for equipment-makers and, most controversially, incentives for foreign companies to share commercial secrets.
High-speed rail is a prime example of the Chinese governments prowess at identifying priority industries and deploying money and policy tools to nurture them.
It inspires awe of what it can accomplish and fear that other countries stand little chance against such a formidable competitor.
Yet there have also been big industrial-policy misses, notably the failure to develop strong car manufacturers and semiconductor-makers.
China is rolling out a new generation of industrial policies, directed at a range of advanced sectors, raising worries that it will dominate everything from robotics to artificial intelligence.
That result is far from preordained.
Industrial policy is a touchy topic.
In continental Europe and, especially, Asia, many have faith in the governments ability to steer companies into industries they might otherwise shun.
In America and Britain, faith tends to be supplanted by deep doubts.
Governments, after all, have a lousy record in picking winners in fast-evolving markets.
Yet most countries try to support some industries, usually through a mixture of infrastructure, tax breaks and research funding.
What differs is the stress they lay on such measures.
China is unique in the breadth and heft of its industrial policy.
For years the government concentrated on modernising what it classified as nine traditional industries such as shipbuilding, steelmaking and petrochemical production.
In 2010 seven new strategic industries, from alternative energy to biotechnology, also became targets.
And two years ago it announced its Made in China 2025 scheme, specifying ten sectors, including aerospace, new materials and agricultural equipment, which are now at the heart of its planning.
The various plans overlap; cars, for example, have appeared in every iteration.
The result is a wide-ranging approach in which the government tries to shape outcomes in important parts of the economy, new and old.
The Made in China plan, its latest industrial-policy craze, is derived in part from Germanys Industry 4.0 model, which focuses on creating a helpful environment through training and policy support but leaves business decisions to companies.
Chinas version is much more hands-on.
By the start of this year, officials had established 1,013 state-guided funds, endowed with 5.3trn yuan ($807bn), much of it for Made in China industries.
In August the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology unveiled a manufacturing-subsidy programme, spread across as many as 62 separate initiatives.
Most contentiously, the government has laid out local-content targets for the various Made in China sectors (see chart).
One plan features hundreds of market-share targets, both at home and abroad.
Clearly, this is no mere domestic exercise, the EU Chamber of Commerce in China warned in a report this year.
The targets also illustrate one of the facets of Chinese industrial policy that has so angered foreign companies and governments: the disguising of state support.
The World Trade Organisation (WTO) strictly limits local-content rules.
But Chinas market-share targets are primarily contained in semi-official documents, such as a blueprint published by the Chinese Academy of Engineering.
So the government can claim that these are simply industry reports, not official targets.
But in the Chinese system the line between government-backed industry estimates and official guidelines is easily blurred.
Similarly, foreigners have long complained that China hides much of its illegal state aid.
Since 2011 America has formally requested information about more than 400 unreported Chinese subsidies.
China learned how to game the system, says Tim Stratford, a former American trade official responsible for dealings with China.
The WTO is not designed to deal effectively with a huge economy that has, as the core of its development strategy, industrial policies across a wide range of sectors.
Frustrations at the WTOs inadequacy in restraining China have led the American government to look at other mechanisms (see article ).
Foreign competitors see China as a well-oiled machine and worry that they will lose business not just in China but around the world.
Export powerhouses such as South Korea and Germany feel most exposed (see chart).
But in fact the Chinese governments record in promoting specific industries is patchy.
Since the 1970s it has tried to develop semiconductors.
But of the $145bn-worth of microchips China consumed in 2015, only a tenth were truly domestic; foreign technology remains superior.
The car industry, too, has disappointed.
To manufacture in China, foreign firms must take local partners.
The government hoped this would lead to knowledge transfers.
Instead, local firms, insulated from head-on foreign competition, have milked the joint ventures for profits and innovated little.
Moreover, in their zeal, local governments can go overboard.
Some worry that Made in China sectors will end up facing gluts, like old industries where China is now cutting overcapacity, such as steel and coal.
The Mercator Institute of China Studies, a Berlin-based research group, counted that, by late 2016, nearly 40 local governments had opened or planned robotics parks.
The central government estimates that China will need nearly 150bn yuan-worth of robots over the next few years.
According to the Mercator tally, local targets add up to roughly five times as much.
Yet when four factorsforeign technology, domestic abilities, market demand and government moneycome together, Chinese industrial policy can be ruthlessly effective.
The boom in high-speed rail began in 2004 when the government offered lucrative contracts to foreign engineering companies such as Germanys Siemens and Japans Kawasaki so long as they shared their know-how.
Some resisted at first, but eventually the lure of Chinas vast market won them over, especially when they saw competitors getting a slice of it.
With their prodigious engineering skills, born from years of trying to develop high-speed rail themselves, Chinese companies soon absorbed the technology.
After a decade of laying tracks on an unprecedented scale, they have improved on it.
That success cannot be replicated in all ten of the Made in China sectors, not least because foreign companies are more guarded about sharing their secrets.
But it would be rash to bet against Chinas succeeding in at least a few of them.
ASK young American parents about Toys R Us and they are likely to be able to sing a jingle from their childhood: I dont wanna grow up, cause maybe if I did, I couldnt be a Toys R Us kid.
For children of the 1980s, Toys R Us was a mecca at the strip mall, an awe-inspiring array of dolls, trucks, board games, bikes, art supplies and much more.
Many of them noticed when on September 18th, the chain filed for bankruptcy.
Dave Brandon, the companys chief executive, emphasised that shops would carry on operating as usual and claimed that Toys R Us was at the start of a new, brighter era.
These are the right steps to ensure that the iconic Toys R Us and Babies R Us brands live on for many generations, he declared.
A Chapter 11 bankruptcy, many analysts agree, is a sensible way to deal with the chains $5bn of long-term debt.
So Toys R Us is not dead.
But its future is hardly certain.
The companys tale in many ways typifies the ailments of American bricks-and-mortar retailing.
Its woes began in the 1990s, as big-box stores grew both in number and in size.
Walmarts vast selection meant parents could buy a toy in the same place where they picked up milk.
Then came e-commerce.
Toys are particularly suitable for online shopping.
Unlike a dress, they do not need to be tried on for size, and unlike a peach they do not need to be felt for ripeness.
Those of prime toy-buying age, parents with young children, are busy.
Women aged 25-44 spend almost as much time shopping as they do eating and drinking.
Given the choice of buying a train set online or in a store, particularly when a toy shop can transform even the calmest child into an insatiable lunatic, many parents opt to buy online.
Amazon makes that extraordinarily convenient.
The result is that many former Toys R Us kids have no interest in being Toys R Us parents.
Cowen, a financial-services firm, expects 41% of toys and games in America to be purchased online this year, about twice the proportion sourced from the internet in 2009.
Toys R Us also suffers from other common ills.
The first is a heavy burden of debt.
Three private-equity firms bought Toys R Us in 2005 in a leveraged buyout, adding substantially to its borrowings; it pays around $400m a year in interest costs, even as it tries to compete with Amazon.
It also has $400m in secured and unsecured debt maturing next year.
Many expected a bankruptcy, but the filing, just ahead of the vital holiday selling season, underlines how squeezed the firm has become.
Two other retailersPayless ShoeSource, a 61-year-old discount shoe-seller from Kansas, and Gymboree, which began selling childrens clothing in 1986are among those that declared bankruptcy this year after being backed by private-equity firms that left them similarly weighed down.
Second, Toys R Us has not helped itself.
Like many department-store chains, its inventory has been painfully slow to adapt to changing trends.
Sales of fidget spinners, a toy that has become ubiquitous in the past year, for instance, got twirling online first.
Nor is it clear whether its strategy of trying to lure families to its shops with live events, such as music classes for children, will work.
Like so many other retailers, Toys R Us is striving to build its business online.
That has been bumpy work.
In 2000, back when Amazon was still trying to move beyond selling books, Toys R Us joined with the e-commerce giant to manage online toy sales.
Four years later it sued Amazon, arguing that the e-tailer had broken the terms of their agreement.
In 2006 a judge agreed, but 11 years on that victory gives scant solace.
IN THEORY, overnight air travel should be wonderfully convenient.
Instead of booking a hotel for the night and losing a day, travellers simply sleep while they fly.
In reality, sleeping on a plane is hard, and at an airport tougher still.
The chairs in terminals, nobodys idea of comfort to begin with, tend to have armrests that make splaying out unfeasible.
Even in business-class lounges, travellers contort themselves into impossible shapes to pretend that workspace desks are actually beds.
But soon there may be less need for such acrobatics.
Sleep pods are coming to more and more airports.
Last month, Washington Dulles International put out a call for proposals for a company to provide a quiet and comfortable place within the airport to sleep, relax, or work while waiting to board a flight.
Mexico Citys airport has just added sleep pods with a space-age design for $30 a night.
YotelAir, which offers pods in Amsterdam, London and Paris, is a touch more expensive at $42 for four hours.
Dearer still is Minute Suites, which has operations in three American airports with a fourth coming later this year.
Its prices start at $32 an hour.
NapCity, which is yet to sign its first lease, will charge $45 for the first hour and a slightly lower rate after that.
The concept is not new.
Japan opened its first capsule hotels in the late 1970s.
But today sleep pods seem to be on the verge of conquering Western airports.
And they have taken on a distinctly Western style, leaving behind the Asian modeloften little more than a mattress and the minimum requisite space for a human body.
Some have televisions and charging stations and sell items such as toothbrushes.
That is great news for flyers.
But the bigger question for the future of sleep pods is whether they make sense for airports.
One concern may be revenue.
Airports generally take a cut of the money that retailers in the terminal make.
That is by no means pocket change.
The founder of one capsule hotel company told Bloomberg that a single seat in a restaurant can generate $20,000 a year.
It is unclear whether sleeping pods, even the most-compact of which take up the space of a couple of restaurant seats, will generate returns that big.
And so airports may think twice before giving up room to them.
Airports also may be wary of creating new competition for nearby hotels.
They enjoy a good relationship with these hotels, which offer lodging for airline crews and stranded passengers, and send shuttles to and from the airports.
Hoteliers would surely balk if airports cosied up to their cheaper and more-convenient rivals.
But travellers are willing to do a lot for a good nights sleep.
Take, for example, the new bus service that runs from Los Angeles to San Francisco, which Gulliver recently reported on .
It goes out of its way to take longer so that passengers can get eight hours of rest.
Whether airports will be equally willing to let its customers get some shut-eye remains to be seen.
FINANCIERS with PhDs like to remind each other to read your Kindleberger".
The rare academic who could speak fluently to bureaucrats and normal people, Charles Kindleberger designed the Marshall Plan and wrote vast economic histories worthy of Tolstoy.
Read your Kindleberger is just a coded way of saying dont forget this has all happened before.
So to anyone invested in, mining or building applications for distributed ledger money such as bitcoin or ethereum: read your Kindleberger.
Start with A Financial History of Western Europe , in which Kindleberger documents how many times merchants in different centuries figured out clever ways of doing the exact same thing.
They made transactions easier, and in the process created new deposits and bills that increased the supply of money.
In most cases, the Brgermeister or the king left these innovations in place, but decided to control the supply of money and credit themselves.
It is good for the king to be in charge of his own creditors.
But also, it has always been tempting for private finance to create too much money.
There is no evidence that money born on a distributed ledger will be clean of this sin.
Distributed ledgers, which borrow private computers from around the world to update the same list of accounts, address one ancient challenge of finance: how to make sure a transaction between two people located far apart is credible to both.
Other innovations have done the same.
In 1773 banks in England went in on a clearinghouse in London, for example, an improvement on the system of managing separate ledgers with each bank.
The banks themselves took in gold coincumbersome to carry and verifythen created new money by offering more in loans than the gold they had on deposit.
In 1776 Adam Smith described coins as an earth-bound highway, where bank money offered a waggon-way through the air.
(Quote from Kindleberger.
Read your Kindleberger.)
Your blogger challenges any bitcoin operator to praise his own disruptions more loftily.
Over the next century the currency school, which wanted to lock down growth in money, argued with the banking school, which wanted ever more waggons in the air.
We cant look back now and say either side definitively won, because this argument cannot ever possibly be won.
Creditors and business owners want the supply of money to grow slowly.
Debtors and employees want it to grow faster.
We might sooner tease out the true nature of the Holy Spirit.
Bankers talk about governance, ways to ensure private banks and central bankers make sound decisionsso they create just enough money make commerce easier, but not so much that the system collapses through inflation or panics.
The developers behind distributed ledgers, however, often talk as if governance is something they are beyond.
They are not.
Computer code is just a set of rules.
Code is governance.
And it can change.
Take bitcoin: if a supermajority of the computers running the bitcoin distributed ledger run an upgrade, the upgrade becomes the new code.
But behind each computer is a human, making decisions.
Distributed-ledger developers talk about a consensus-driven model, where you improve the system by bringing everyone on board.
So do central bankers.
And different humans have different interests.
In bitcoin, the people who own the computers verifying transactionsthe minerswant code that increases fees for miners.
People who use bitcoin want code that keeps those fees low.
These two sides could not agree, and so in August the bitcoin distributed ledger forkeda smaller group of developers created a copy with slightly different rules, called bitcoin cash.
Everyone who owned one unit of bitcoin also suddenly owned one unit of bitcoin cash.
Out of a governance dispute, new money.
In mid-September bitcoin traded at about $3900, while bitcoin cash fetched only $500.
Cointelegraph, a site for people who trade distributed-ledger currencies, also offers quotes and analysis on currencies called ethereum, ripple and litecoin.
You could argue that markets are already deciding which new currencies provide sound money.
And in doing so you would join the banking school of 19th-century England, or the people who loosened financial regulation in the late 1990s in America.
Your blogger does not believe this argument is wrong, necessarily.
But it is not new, and it has failed spectacularly in the past.
Distributed ledgers are useful technology, just like banks.
As they become a larger part of finance, the temptation to abuse them will be just as great.
History instructs that no governance is perfect, and humans are reliably awful.
This week Quartz , an online magazine, published an interview with Vitalik Buterin, the 23-year-old founder of ethereum.
The currency survived a crisis of credibility after a bug was discovered in 2016, leaving him up all night communicating with ethereums users and gathering consensus for actionmuch like the worlds central bankers a decade ago.
He seems thoughtful on the trade-offs of governance, but unaware that anyone has considered them before:

In the case of ethereum, if somehow 80% of ethereums users just ended up being cryptocurrency speculators, would we then have a social responsibility to start optimizing for that constituency, because that would end up being our constituency?
Thats an interesting philosophical question.
It is.
Read your Kindleberger.
MI GENTE lures listeners with a mesmerising hook, a thumping beat and lyrics about breaking down barriers.
A collaboration between J Balvin, a Colombian reggaeton star (pictured), and Willy William, a French producer, the latest product of this summers Latin craze is crooned almost entirely in Spanish.
(The title means My People; reggaeton borrows from hip hop, reggae and rap.)
The song topped the charts on Spotify, a streaming service, for weeks.
To be a crossover artist, you used to have to sing in English, said John Reilly, Mr Balvins publicist.
Now six of YouTubes top ten music videos are predominantly in Spanish.
In August the Billboard Hot 100, which tracks streams, sales and radio plays, sported seven Latin hits.
Just five graced the chart in all of 2016.
Latin music is helping the music industry to arrest years of decline.
Its growth is far outpacing that of other genres.
Last year Latin America yielded just $598m out of total global recorded-music revenue of $16bn, but sales increased by 12%, against 5.9% worldwide.
Streaming revenue in the region (including subscription services such as Spotify and Apple Music, as well as YouTube and other websites) leapt by 57%.
The Latin audience is a lean-back audience, explains Rocio Guerrero, Spotifys head of global cultures.
For radio-loving Latin Americans, who were less likely to own CD players and iPods than music fans elsewhere, streaming was a natural fit.
Now Latin fans are listening to hour upon hour of music.
Mexico and Brazil are among Spotifys top four markets by volume of streams.
Jess Lpez, chief executive of Universal Music Latin America, has said the streaming platform has democratised music consumption.
Fans have access to any music, anywhere.
Spotifys curators are also makers of fortune, promoting Latin hits and rising stars by featuring them in playlists like Baila Reggaeton (Dance Reggaeton), the apps third most popular.
A spot in Baila Reggaeton guarantees tens of millions of streams from the lists nearly 6m followers, which can propel a song into Spotifys global charts.
Danny Ocean, a Venezuelan unknown with a honey-smooth voice, released Me Rehso by himself on YouTubeand saw it soar when Spotify added it to Baila Reggaeton.
As streaming services have tracked and monetised, labels have noted Latin musics climb up the charts.
The Spanish version of Despacito, by Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee, a Puerto Rican duo, was already ubiquitous in Latin America when Justin Bieber heard it in a club in Bogot.
Mr Bieber asked if he could jump on the track.
The hybrid version released in April became the most-streamed song yet, with nearly 5bn audio and video plays.
Record labels are eager to tap a fan base that includes Latin Americans, Latinos in America (one of the countrys fastest-growing ethnic groups) and millions of teenagers worldwide drawn to reggaeton by Despacito and Mi Gente.
Latin music captures 8% of streams in America, which translates into advertising revenues and performance sales for music labels.
It still accounts for just 2% of songs and albums sold.
Would labels rather have a million streams or a million albums sold?
Its a no-brainer, says David Bakula of Nielsen Entertainment, a research firm.
Universal Music Group, the worlds biggest music company, which co-manages Mr Balvin and Mr Fonsi, first invested in digital teams in Latin America a decade ago.
That seems to be paying off.
Scorpio Music, the French indie label behind Mi Gente, last celebrated a Billboard hit in 1984.
It hopes Latin music will be a ticket back to renown.
We have to prove were relevant and that Mi Gente wasnt a lucky strike, said Chiara Belolo, its head of international development.
Mr Balvin has the same task.
He is working on a remix of his hit track with a huge mainstream artist.
He owes much of his success to streaming, he says, but Im the type of artist who doesnt like to talk about money.
Even so, he is now the kind who makes it.
The iPhone Xs supply chain woes now have the making of a Shakespearean tragedy.
Early Wednesday, The Wall Street Journal reported (paywall) that the components of the iPhone X giving Apple the most trouble are named Romeo and Juliet.
The pair combine to make Apples brand new Face ID feature possible, with Romeo projecting the 30,000 invisible dots that create a depth map of your face and Juliet analyzing them to unlock your phone.
And though, like their literary namesakes, Romeo and Juliet are destined to be together, the components have tripped up the tech giant because Romeo takes longer to manufacture than Juliet, causing a supply imbalance and slowing down production.
In other words, there are many Juliets in Apples factories waiting for their Romeo to arrive.
This is just the latest supply chain rumor to loom over the iPhone Xs impending Nov. 3 release date.
Previous reports indicated that it was the production of the iPhone Xs edge-to-edge OLED screen  a first for Apple  that was causing most of the issues.
Apple was eventually forced to scrap its Touch ID fingerprint scanner for the X because it was difficult to incorporate into the new design.
The iPhone 8 and 8 Plus, on the other hand, still have Touch ID sensors, but do not feature Face ID.
Before this report, KGI Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo had predicted that Apple will not be able to fully meet demand until halfway through 2018.
The iPhone 8 and 8 Plus start at $699 and $799, respectively, while the iPhone X starts at an eye-watering $999.
Apples so-called future of the smartphone will be made available for pre-order on Oct. 27, and hits stores Nov. 3.
Reports of the iPhone 8s death are greatly exaggerated.
Thats according to KGI Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo, who said in a note to investors late Tuesday that disappointment over Apples iPhone 8 sales is overblown and that the market is excessively negative.
Shorter-than-usual lines at Apple stores around the world last Friday caused some to speculate that demand for the iPhone 8 was getting hit by lukewarm reviews, which have said the new phones features are only modestly ahead of last years iPhone 7.
But Kuo said he believes the devices sales are right where they are supposed to be.
According to Kuo, Apples estimated demand for its new batch of iPhones is an even split between the iPhone X and both sizes of the iPhone 8.
At first glance, the combined first-week adoption rate for the iPhone 8/ 8 Plus might appear low, Kuo said.
However, this is due to the fact that the iPhone X is not included, not because iPhone 8/ 8 Plus first weekend sales have been weak.
Kuo also noted that many analysts pay more attention to sales at the Apple store, as opposed to carrier channels where demand is more stable.
The iPhone X will not be made available for pre-order until Oct. 27, and will not hit stores until Nov. 3.
Ford Motor Co. said on Wednesday it will collaborate with Lyft to deploy Ford self-driving vehicles on the ride services companys network in large numbers by 2021.
Ford and Lyft teams will begin working together to design software to allow Ford vehicles to communicate with Lyfts smartphone apps.
Ford self-driving test vehicles will be connected to Lyfts network, but at first, customers will not be able to use them, Sherif Marakby, Fords vice president for autonomous vehicles and electrification, told Reuters.
Ford will put human-driven vehicles on Lyfts network.
He did not say when Ford and Lyft expect to offer the first rides in self-driving cars.
Were not building prototypes for the sake of building prototypes, Marakby said, adding Ford intends to ultimately put thousands of self-driving vehicles in use.
Fords new Chief Executive Jim Hackett is scheduled to meet with investors on Tuesday to outline the Dearborn, Mich. automakers strategy for boosting profitability.
Ford shares are down 1.65 percent so far this year, while Detroit rival General Motors shares have risen 15.6 percent, and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV shares are up 71 percent.
Hacketts plans to compete for revenue from mobility services, which include car sharing and ride-hailing, will be one area of focus for investors.
The Lyft partnership fills in a piece of the puzzle.
Ford also is testing delivery services using self-driving vehicles and a van shuttle service.
The self-driving vehicles Ford will deploy through Lyft will use software developed by Argo AI, a company in which Ford is investing $1 billion over the next five years.
The company has said it will invest $700 million in a factory in Flat Rock, Michigan, to make it capable of building electric and self driving vehicles.
Lyft has said it will offer an open platform for companies to deploy self-driving vehicles on its network, and has partnerships with self driving vehicle technology startup Drive.ai and Alphabets Waymo self driving car unit.
GM has a 9 percent stake in Lyft, acquired for $500 million in January 2016.
Our relationship with GM has always been a non-exclusive relationship, Raj Kapoor, Lyfts chief strategy officer, told Reuters.
GM is also assembling the assets necessary to launch its own ride services using self-driving cars, building its Maven car-sharing unit and preparing to launch mass production of autonomous Chevrolet Bolt electric cars at a factory in suburban Detroit.
In a rare public feud between large technology companies, Amazon said on Tuesday its Echo Show devices could no longer play videos from YouTube because the sites parent, Google, stopped supporting the service.
The spat is the latest in Silicon Valley in which competitive tensions stood in the way of customers.
Amazon and Google square off in many areas, from cloud computing and online search, to selling voice-controlled gadgets like the Echo Show.
In a statement, Amazon said, As of this afternoon, Google has chosen to no longer make YouTube available on Echo Show, without explanation and without notification to customers.
There is no technical reason for that decision, which is disappointing and hurts both of our customers.
Google, owned by Alphabet, said instead that the development was no surprise.
Weve been in negotiations with Amazon for a long time, working towards an agreement that provides great experiences for customers on both platforms, it said in a statement.
Amazons implementation of YouTube on the Echo Show violates our terms of service, creating a broken user experience.
We hope to be able to reach an agreement and resolve these issues soon.
The Echo Show had displayed YouTube videos without integral features, from video recommendations to channel subscriptions.
Google has been in a similar dispute with Microsoft in the past.
It was not clear how many customers were affected.
Amazon only started selling the Echo Show in June, which comes with a touchscreen and responds by voice command.
Amazons suite of Echo devices, including the Echo and Echo Dot, have outsold the voice-controlled Google Home, according to research firm eMarketer.
Amazon has ambitions to make it normal for people to control computers by voice  and to place orders for its online retail business by voice, too.
Its a bit of a blow to Amazon, said analyst Jan Dawson of Jackdaw Research.
YouTube is one of the big video services that they had in addition to their own.
For that to disappear means a big chunk of the possible video content you could watch on Echo Show is now gone.
The Verge, a technology news website, earlier reported the news.
Among recent tech standoffs, Amazon had stopped selling Apples TV players in 2015 because they did not support its Prime Video service.
The two finally reached an agreement earlier this year.
Things get harder for end users because these companies cant get along, Dawson said.
Equifax Chief Executive Richard Smith, three weeks after reporting the company was a victim of an embarrassing cyber-attack, stepped down suddenly from his job on Tuesday.
The exit, one week before the company is expected to be on the receiving end of some hostile questioning by lawmakers on Capitol Hill, will not shield Smith from the fire.
While Smith, 12 years at the helm of the credit-monitoring company, relinquished all claims to a 2017 bonus and $5.2 million in severance, he will nonetheless receive a pension of about $18.4 million.
Lawmakers may feel he is getting off easy.
Its not real accountability if the CEO resigns without giving back a nickel in pay and without publicly answering questions, Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.)
said in a statement.
Smiths separation agreement, detailed on Tuesday in a regulatory filing, left open how much he will earn in 2017  and also allowed for some clawbacks of already earned compensation.
Earlier this month, Equifax disclosed a security breach that potentially affected the personal data of 143 million US consumers.
News of the hack elicited howls of discontentment.
That the hack, which occurred between May 13 and July 30, weeks after the company became aware of software flaws, didnt help Smiths case.
Equifax shares have fallen 26 percent since the hack was disclosed on Sept. 7, erasing roughly $4.4 billion in value.
The board seemed to try to ring fence the hacking issue, ousting the companys chief information officer and security boss, but there was still thirst for more scalps.
Management experts said financial repercussions should extend to other executives as well.
Its rarely just the CEO.
The CEO is not going to be the first person to know, said Professor John Coffee of Columbia Law School.
I think you should also focus on the board of directors  what did they know and when did they know it?
Coffee said.
Despite his retirement, Smith is still scheduled to appear before the committee on Oct. 4, an Equifax spokesperson confirmed Tuesday.
It was not certain if interim CEO Paulino Barros and newly appointed Chairman Mark Feidler would also appear before the Senate Banking Committee.
In addition to facing shareholder backlash and likely harsh questioning from lawmakers next week, Equifax, in the wake of the hack, is facing civil suits filed by Massachusetts and San Francisco and a likely criminal probe by the FBI.
The Securities and Exchange Commission is also thought to be looking into the sale of company shares by three Equifax executives days after the hack was discovered.
The company has said the execs in question did not know of the hack at the time.
Regarding his tenure, Smith said Tuesday that it was an honor to serve the company.
At this critical juncture, I believe it is in the best interests of the company to have new leadership to move the company forward, Smith added.
Ron Burkle has rejected a $3 billion-plus binding offer for his Americold refrigerated warehouse business from Stephen Schwarzmans Blackstone Group, The Post had learned.
The Los Angeles billionaire now plans to cash out of the growing business by taking it public, two sources close to the situation said.
A spokesman for Burkles Yucaipa declined comment on Blackstone but emphasized that the strategic review continues and that Americold could either be sold or be the subject of an IPO.
Atlanta-based Americold, the worlds No.
1 refrigerated warehousing provider, struggled earlier this decade but has turned things around.
With the company back on its feet, Burkles Yucaipa is seeking top dollar, sources said.
For Blackstone, this is the second time in a matter of months it has been the final suitor in an auction  and fallen short.
Martin Franklin- and Bill Ackman- controlled Platform Specialty Products rejected Blackstones $4 billion-plus offer for its pesticides division, electing instead to split the public company.
Perhaps the rising value of public companies is making it harder for Blackstone to win private auctions at what it considers reasonable multiples.
Blackstone declined to comment.
BJs Wholesale Club will soon be back on the block.
The private equity owners of the regional warehouse chain are choosing to exit their 6-year-old investment via a sale rather than an initial public offering, The Post has learned.
CVC Capital Partners and Leonard Green & Partners, which took BJs private in 2011 for $2.8 billion, are hoping to attract a sale price of $4 billion to $4.5 billion, sources said.
Thats a healthy 10 times Ebitda, roughly the premium Amazon paid for Whole Foods.
The PE owners are in the process of premarketing the chain, which is often what happens in auctions.
They are speaking to fellow PE firms, such as KKR, sources said.
BJs was at a similar place this spring but postponed the sale after Amazon, a potential BJs suitor, in June agreed to buy Whole Foods, a source said.
Amazon is now likely out of the running.
Walmart in 2011 showed interest in buying BJs, but is not expected to this time, a source said.
Fellow private equity firms are the most likely buyers, attracted by the steady $250 million annual revenue stream from fees members pay at its 213 warehouse clubs.
BJs also operates 130 gas stations.
The PE owners invested about $600 million in cash in buying the chain  the rest of the purchase price was funded with debt  so a sale in the hoped-for range would net them as much as a five-fold return on their investment, sources said, including the dividends extracted over the years.
The PE firms declined to comment.
Pet toy sales are showing some bite.
Those chew toys for Fido and related goods have become the hottest sector in the toy business  posting annual growth rates in the mid-single digits while sales of childrens toys are shrinking, industry statistics show.
In 2017, pet toy sales are expected to exceed $1 billion for the first time.
The fast-paced growth has convinced some nontraditional toy sellers, like Home Depot, T.J.Maxx and even Tractor Supply Co., to start stocking pet toys in recent years.
Toys have held steady at about $21 billion on average for the past decade, but the pet industry is growing like crazy, said Jim Silver, president of TTPM, a toy-review Web site, which began reviewing pet products a couple of years ago, because pet parents wanted to know they are buying safe and quality made doodads for their pets.
Experts peg the growth of pet toy sales to millennials, who are putting off marriage and having kids  but welcoming a pet.
In fact, a study this past summer showed many 20-to-36-year-olds consider their furry companions as starter children.
Pet ownership has grown by 5 percent since 2014 to 68 percent of US households, according to American Pet Products Association.
[Millennials] are the largest group of pet parents today and are buying everything from automatic feeders to GPS products to keep track of their pets while they are at work, Andy Krinner, TTPMs pet content director, said Tuesday at a Manhattan pet trade show.
One pet toy supplier, Petmate, has used the rapid sales growth to recruit 10 former toy industry veterans to the pet toy sector, according to the companys Chris Wilson.
San Francisco became the first US city to sue Equifax over the historic hack that compromised the personal data of 143 million US citizens.
The city alleged that the Georgia-based credit-monitoring firm skirted California state laws by failing to maintain proper security procedures and giving residents timely and complete information when the company realized it had been hacked.
This company fell asleep at the switch and upended the lives of millions of people Now Californians have been put at risk of identity theft for years to come, City Attorney Dennis Herrera said in a statement Tuesday.
Equifax revealed this month that its data was compromised between May 13 through July 30.
The company learned of the breach on July 29 but did not disclose it until six weeks later on Sept. 7.
Fifteen million Californians had their data compromised, representing more than 10 percent of the 143 million US consumers affected by the breach.
Equifaxs incompetence would be comical if the subject matter werent so serious, Herrera said.
The city also faulted Equifax for not responding quickly to a publicized vulnerability with the open-source Apache Struts software it uses.
The vulnerability was disclosed on March 7 and a corrective patch was issued the same day.
Equifax did not install the patch or implement any other security measures, the complaint said.
When youre dealing with highly sensitive information, keeping your software up to date is such a basic step, Herrera said.
Herrera said that Equifax should have encrypted client data or stored it in separate data bases.
Equifax did none of that, Herrera said.
Reps from Equifax declined to comment specifically on the litigation.
The company said it wants to reassure consumers that we are remaining focused on helping them navigate the situation and providing the best customer support possible.
The NFLs TV ratings were a mixed bag in Week 3, but a strong showing for Monday Night Football lifted the weeks total NFL ratings by 3 percent over the same week last year.
The MNF match-up between the Dallas Cowboys and Arizona Cardinals generated a viewership gain of 63 percent over last seasons game.
Much of the ratings boost for the ESPN broadcast was attributed to a year-earlier broadcast that directly competed with a presidential debate.
While candidate Donald Trump helped reduce last years NFL viewership, many believe President Trump aided in this years Week 3 ratings boost by criticizing players kneeling during the national anthem.
Trumps attacks likely attracted more viewers to watch their favorite teams reactions.
Trump continued to criticize the leagues protesters Tuesday by tweeting, Ratings for NFL football are way down except before game starts, when people tune in to see whether or not our country will be disrespected!
On Monday night, Cowboys owner Jerry Jones knelt along with coaches and the entire team before the anthem was played.
They then stood and locked arms during the anthem.
It has never been about respect for the flag.
I think that narrative was debunked last night, NFL spokesman Joe Lockhart said Tuesday.
Grilled by lawmakers on Capitol Hill, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission said Tuesday the agency still isnt sure how a breach of its electronic filing system happened last year.
The SEC revealed last week that hackers in 2016 broke into its so-called Edgar database, which is used by companies to disclose market-moving financial information, and may have traded on it for illicit gains.
At a Tuesday hearing, SEC Chairman Jay Clayton faced sharp criticism for the agencys handling of the breach, with US Senators griping about its lack of information on the incident and its sluggishness in revealing it.
What else are we not being told?
US Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) asked early in Tuesdays hearing, noting that the SEC waited six weeks to disclose the breach after discovering it.
How can you expect companies to do the right thing when your agency has not?
Other members of the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee expressed skepticism that the breach had been properly addressed.
If you do not know what caused the defect, why cant they do it again?
US Sen. Jon Tester (D-Mont.)
asked Clayton.
Clayton did not answer the question directly, saying the breach happened in a piece of custom software, noting that custom software is typically the most vulnerable.
In his opening testimony, Clayton said he initially decided in August to disclose the breach to the public when he learned it might have led to illicit gains, but waited several weeks until he felt we werent going to learn any more.
In the SECs Sept. 20 press release, the agency said the breach had been patched.
Senator Tester asked in what month the breach happened in 2016, and Clayton said he could not say.
Clayton, who has been in office for four months, said his predecessor Mary Jo White may have not known of the breach, appearing to deflect potential blame on her for not disclosing it.
Of course this breach took place under your predecessor  we recognize that  but the disclosure or, the lack thereof, is all yours, Brown said.
The breach provoked some lawmakers to lament the SECs broader failure to ensure a fair playing field for investors.
Noting that top executives at Equifax were selling shares ahead of disclosure of the companys massive data breach, US Sen. Heidi Heitkamp (R-N.D.) told Clayton that gamblers get a fairer shake from casinos than retail investors get from the stock market.
If gaming commissions in Nevada get an A or A-minus grade for keeping games of chance fair, You probably get a C, Heitkamp told Clayton.
If thats the case, SEC Chair Jay Clayton said, I want to change it.
Bradley Bondi, former counsel at the SEC and now a partner at Cahill Gordon and Reindel, said the hacking incident might have been prevented if the SEC hadnt abolished critical infrastructure, such as the Office of Internet Enforcement, at a time when cyber threats were growing.
This current problem likely stems from former SEC leadership who abdicated their duties by delegating their responsibilities to the SEC enforcement staff, Bondi told The Post.
Clayton said Tuesday he had turned to the Office of Inspector General for assistance in the investigation.
Senate Banking Committee Chair Mike Crapo (R-Idaho) said he was concerned that there have been breaches at the FDIC, IRS and now the SEC.
Coaches with some of the countrys top college basketball programs...

Adidas stock price fell more than 2 percent Tuesday morning following the revelation that a top exec was charged in a wide-ranging bribery scheme to lure college athletes into sportswear contracts.
James Gatto, the companys director of global sports marketing for basketball, is among a dozen defendants named in criminal complaints unsealed in Manhattan federal court.
Shares of the German sneaker company were trading at 187.50 euros each on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, down 2.61 percent, shortly after 11 a.m. New York time.
US Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said China needed to guarantee fair and reciprocal treatment for US firms as he tried to strike an upbeat tone on a visit to Beijing amid trade tensions between the two countries.
In a statement on Tuesday, the US Commerce Department said that Ross had also pressed China on the need to rebalance bilateral trade and investment relations and urged it to take meaningful action on trade issues.
Secretary Ross once again continued to stress the need for concrete action to address the concerns of US businesses, and that the US would take action to defend American workers and businesses if cooperative efforts bear no fruit, the department said.
China committed to further market opening and welcomed participation by US firms, with both sides supporting talks to resolve trade frictions, it said.
Ross met with senior Chinese officials, including Vice Premier Wang Yang, who handles an annual US-China economic dialogue, and He Lifeng, the head of Chinas state planning agency, the National Development and Reform Commission.
His remarks came as the World Trade Organization published a US document showing the United States had asked China not to implement its new cyber security law, over concern it could damage global trade in services.
Speaking later in Hong Kong, Ross said the tone was pretty good between the US and China ahead of Trumps visit, but a lot of negotiating still had to take place before then.
Chinas relationship with the United States has been strained by the Trump administrations criticism of Chinas trade practices and by demands that Beijing do more to pressure North Korea to halt its nuclear weapons and missiles programs.
Chinese President Xi Jinping and Trump met for the first time in person at Trumps Mar-A-Lago estate in Florida in April.
Trump has since played up his personal relationship with Xi, even as he kept up his criticism of China over North Korea and trade.
The two sides launched a 100-day economic plan at that meeting, including some industry-specific announcements such as the resumption of American beef sales in China.
But US business groups have expressed disappointment that the talks have not yielded more progress in getting China to loosen restrictions on foreign investment in many sectors.
If the kind of trade relations China and the United States have are only beneficial to the Chinese side, then US companies would not continue to do so much business in China, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang told a regular press briefing.
Rosss trip to China to prepare the ground for Trumps visit comes after the US administration earlier this month blocked a Chinese-backed private equity firm from buying a US-based chipmaker.
In August, Trump authorised an inquiry into Chinas alleged theft of intellectual property  the first direct trade measure by his administration against Beijing.
China has called that move irresponsible.
Twitter hit back at critics who said it should have taken down President Trumps weekend tweets on North Korea, arguing that they were newsworthy even though they appeared to be violent threats.
Trump had tweeted Saturday in response to a speech by North Koreas foreign minister Ri Yong-ho at the United Nations on Sunday, saying if he echoed the sentiments of Kim Jong-un, the pair wont be around for much longer.
North Koreas foreign minister called the presidents tweet a declaration of war and said The Hermit Kingdom now has the right to shoot down the United States strategic bombers at any time.
The escalating rhetoric alarmed many Twitter users, who demanded to know why Trump wasnt violating the social networks rule that states users may not make threats of violence or promote violence.
In a thread posted by Twitter PublicPolicy, the company said the presidents tweets, although provocative, were of public interest.
We hold all accounts to the same Rules, and consider a number of factors when assessing whether Tweets violate our Rules, the tweet said.
Among the considerations is newsworthiness and whether a Tweet is of public interest.
According to Twitter PublicPolicy, the company will soon be updating its terms of conduct to better reflect this reasoning.
To crack down on white-collar crime, the director of enforcement at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission is bringing tactics he learned as a criminal prosecutor in the South Bronx.
The CFTC will encourage Wall Street wrongdoers to self-report infractions  that is, turn themselves in and cooperate with the ensuing investigations, CFTC director of enforcement James McDonald told a group of financial pros Monday night at New York University School of Law.
The CFTCs carrot?
Well, significantly reduced penalties for those who turn themselves in, McDonald said.
To demonstrate the programs anticipated effectiveness, McDonald recalled working with low-level gang members in the South Bronx to get information he could use to prosecute higher-ranking gang members during his time as a prosecutor for the Southern District of New York.
Those cooperators gave us an inside perspective into how the gang worked, and who gave the orders, McDonald said.
He anticipates that the same methods that worked in gangs would also play out on Wall Street  and could lead to penalties for individuals.
One criticism in the wake of the financial crisis was how few individuals were successfully prosecuted for their wrongdoing.
SHANGHAI  It is no secret that the bulk of Ivanka Trumps merchandise comes from China.
But just which Chinese companies manufacture and export her handbags, shoes and clothes is more secret than ever, an Associated Press investigation has found.
In the months since she took her White House role, public information about the companies importing Ivanka Trump goods to the US has become harder to find.
Information that once routinely appeared in private trade tracking data has vanished, leaving the identities of companies involved in 90 percent of shipments unknown.
Even less is known about her manufacturers.
Trumps brand, which is still owned by the first daughter and presidential adviser, declined to disclose the information.
The deepening secrecy means its unclear whom Ivanka Trumps company is doing business with in China, even as she and her husband, Jared Kushner, have emerged as important conduits for top Chinese officials in Washington.
The lack of disclosure makes it difficult to understand whether foreign governments could use business ties with her brand to try to influence the White House  and whether her company stands to profit from foreign government subsidies that can destroy American jobs.
Such questions are especially pronounced in China, where state-owned and state-subsidized companies dominate large swaths of commercial activity.
There should be more transparency, but right now we do not have the legal mechanism to enforce transparency unless Congress requests information through a subpoena, said Richard Painter, who served as chief White House ethics lawyer for George W. Bush, and is part of a lawsuit against President Donald Trump for alleged constitutional violations.
I dont know how much money shes making on this and why its worth it.
I think its putting our trade policy in a very awkward situation.
An AP review of the records that are available about Ivanka Trumps supply chain found two potential red flags.
In one case, a province in eastern China announced the award of export subsidies to a company that shipped thousands of Ivanka Trump handbags between March 2016 and February of this year, Chinese public records show  a possible violation by China of global fair trade rules, trade experts said.
The AP also found that tons of Ivanka Trump clothing were exported from 2013 to 2015 by a company owned by the Chinese government, according to public records and trade data.
It is unclear whether the brand is still working with that company, or other state-owned entities.
Her brand has pledged to avoid business with state-owned companies now that shes a White House adviser, but contends that its supply chains are not its direct responsibility.
Ivanka Trumps brand doesnt actually make its products directly.
Instead, it contracts with licensees who oversee production of her merchandise.
In exchange, those licensees pay the brand royalties.
The AP asked Ivanka Trumps brand for a list of its suppliers.
The company declined to disclose them.
The clothing, footwear and handbag licensees contacted by AP also declined to reveal source factories.
Abigail Klem, president of IT Operations LLC, which manages Ivanka Trumps brand, said the company does not contract with foreign state-owned companies or benefit from Chinese government subsidies.
However, she acknowledged that its licensees might.
We license the rights to our brand name to licensing companies that have their own supply chains and distribution networks, Klem said in an email.
The brand receives royalties on sales to wholesalers and would not benefit if a licensee increased its profit margin by obtaining goods at a lower cost, she added.
But Michael Stone, chairman of Beanstalk, a global brand licensing agency, said lower production costs for licensees would ultimately benefit Ivanka Trump by freeing up money for marketing or lower retail prices, both of which drive sales.
It gives her a competitive advantage and an indirect benefit to her financially, Stone said.
The more successful the licensee is, the more successful Ivanka Trump is going to be.
The AP identified companies that sent Ivanka Trump products to the United States by looking at shipment data maintained by ImportGenius and Panjiva Inc., private companies that independently track global trade.
Panjivas records show that 85 percent of shipments of her goods to the US this year originated in China and Hong Kong, but beyond that, its becoming more difficult to map the brands global footprint.
The companies that shipped Ivanka Trump merchandise to the US are listed for just five of 57 shipments logged by Panjiva from the end of March, when she officially became a presidential adviser, through mid-September.
Panjiva collects data from US Customs and Border Protection, which did not immediately release the missing data to AP.
While in many cases the manufacturer ships goods directly, merchandise can also be made by one company and shipped by another trading or consolidation company.
There used to be more visibility.
Last year, 27 percent of the companies that exported Ivanka Trump merchandise to the US were identified in Panjivas records, and back in 2014 a full 95 percent were named.
For two of Ivanka Trumps licensees  G-III Apparel Group Ltd. and Marc Fisher Footwear  the number of shipments appears to plunge in 2015, likely because they requested to hide their shipment activity, according to Panjiva records.
Neither company responded to APs questions.
The brand declined to comment on the growing murkiness of its supply chain.
Chris Rogers, an analyst at Panjiva, said any company can ask customs authorities to redact its information for any reason.
About a quarter of companies request anonymity, he said, but the majority dont mind disclosing whom theyre doing business with.
A lot of companies have said, Yes, there might be a commercial disadvantage, but we want to be transparent about our supply chain,' he explained.
Why would we want to cover up the fact that were working with this particular company?'
While ethics lawyers may see disclosure as the best antidote to conflict of interest, many brands see it as a tool to keep supply chains scandal-free.
Public outcry over sweatshop conditions and worker suicides prompted companies like Nike Inc. and Apple Inc. to disclose the names and addresses of their manufacturers, and a growing number, including Gap Inc., the H&M Group, New Balance Athletics Inc., Adidas AG and Levi Strauss & Co., publicly identify their suppliers.
Ivanka Trump should do the same, said Allen Adamson, founder and CEO of BrandSimple Consulting.
Its a missed opportunity to lead by example.
What shipping records do show is that a company called Zhejiang Tongxiang Foreign Trade Group Co. Ltd., a sprawling conglomerate once majority-owned by the Chinese state, sent at least 30 tons of Ivanka Trump handbags to the US between March 2016 and February.
Zhejiang provinces commerce department said in June 2014 that it would help lower export costs for that same company, along with nine other local enterprises, through a special three-year trade promotion program.
Among the measures outlined were export insurance subsidies and funding for online trading platforms and international marketing, as well as special funds earmarked for foreign trade companies with large-scale, fast-growing exports.
The value of the subsidies is unclear, as are details about how the directives were implemented, but using subsidies to reduce the price of exports is considered so destructive to fair trade that the World Trade Organization generally bans the practice.
Chinese government subsidies hurt American workers but can lower costs for US companies that import made-in-China merchandise, potentially boosting their profits.
President Trump has called companies that benefit from foreign government subsidies cheaters.
The AP spoke with four trade experts in the United States and China who said the Zhejiang measures appeared to violate World Trade Organization rules.
These are clearly export subsidies, said Gary Hufbauer, a trade expert at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington.
Zhejiang provinces Department of Commerce and the Zhejiang Tongxiang Foreign Trade Group declined comment.
The AP also found that from October 2013 to January 2015, Jiangsu High Hope International Group Corp., a conglomerate majority-owned by the Jiangsu provincial government, shipped 45 tons of Ivanka Trump clothing to the US, according to records from ImportGenius and Panjiva.
High Hope told AP it had a small number of business dealings with Ivanka Trump licensee G-III Apparel, but declined to answer questions about whether the relationship is ongoing.
G-III, which is based in New York City, declined to respond to specific questions but said in a statement that it is committed to legal compliance and ethical business practices in all of our operations worldwide.
Ivanka Trump licensee Mondani Handbags & Accessories Inc., also headquartered in New York, did not respond to requests for comment.
Ivanka Trumps brand said it was in the process of reviewing its supply chains with the help of independent experts whose mission it is to advance human rights and emphasized that all licensees, manufacturers, subcontractors and suppliers are required to abide by the law, as well as ethical practices set forth in a vendor code of conduct.
The AP asked to see the code of conduct, but the brand declined to share it.
NEW YORK  Equifax CEO Richard Smith is retiring effective immediately as the credit reporting agency tries to clean up the mess left by a damaging data breach that exposed highly sensitive information about 143 million Americans.
The shake-up announced Tuesday comes after Equifax disclosed that hackers exploited a software flaw that the company didnt fix to heist Social Security numbers, birthdates and other personal data that provide the keys to identify theft.
Smith will also step down from the chairman post.
He had been Equifaxs CEO since 2005.
Paulino do Rego Barros Jr. was named interim CEO, while board member Mark Feidler was appointed non-executive chairman.
Barros most recently served as president of the Asia Pacific region.
Equifax said it will conduct a search for a permanent CEO, considering both internal and external candidates.
While the company said in a statement that Smith was retiring, Equifax said in a regulatory filing that it has not entered into any other arrangement or agreement with Smith in connection with his retirement.
He will, however, serve as an unpaid adviser to help with the transition process.
The company said in the filing that Smith will not receive his annual bonus, and his other potential retirement-related benefits wont be awarded until Equifax concludes an independent review of the data breach.
The cybersecurity incident has affected millions of consumers, and I have been completely dedicated to making this right, Smith said in a statement.
At this critical juncture, I believe it is in the best interests of the company to have new leadership to move the company forward.
Although many analysts had applauded Equifaxs performance under Smith, he and the rest of his management team had come under fire for lax security and its response to the breach.
Equifax had tried to appease incensed lawmakers, consumers and investors on Sept. 15 with the unceremonious retirement of its chief security officer and chief information officer, who were responsible for managing and protecting the companys technology.
But that wasnt enough, with lawmakers drawing up bills that would impose sweeping reforms on Equifax and its two main rivals, Experian and TransUnion, and Equifaxs stock went into in a downfall that wiped out one third-of the Atlanta companys value  a $5.5 billion setback.
Smith had been scheduled to appear Oct. 3 during a congressional hearing that would likely have turned into a public lambasting.
Its not immediately clear whom Equifax will send in Smiths place to face lawmakers wrath.
The data breach might not have happened if Equifax had responded promptly to a March warning about a known security weakness in a piece of open-source software called Apache Struts.
Even though a repair was released, Equifax didnt immediately install it.
Digital burglars used the crack in Equifaxs computer systems to break in from May 13 through July 30, according to the companys accounting.
Equifax said it didnt fathom the breadth of information that had been stolen until shortly before issuing a public alert on Sept. 7, triggering the wave of withering condemnations that has led to Smiths departure.
The jobs of other Equifax executives could still be in jeopardy.
Three of them, including Equifaxs chief financial officer, are under scrutiny for selling some of their company shares for a combined $1.8 million before the breach disclosure hammered Equifaxs stock.
Smiths departure also wont make life any easier for most of the US adult population who had their information accessed through no fault of their own, but now have to worry about impostors assuming their identities to obtain credit cards and apply for loans so they can run up huge bills.
Equifax Inc. is providing a year of free protection against identify theft for anyone who wants it, but some lawmakers are trying to pressure the company into extending that offer for the next decade.
Some experts say that still isnt enough to guard against identify theft and are advising consumers to put a freeze on their files at Equifax, Experian and TransUnion to prevent anyone from getting a loan under their names.
A credit freeze, though, creates its own headaches, since it also prevents the person making it from getting a new credit card, mortgage, auto loan or even an expensive smartphone paid through monthly installments.
It also costs money to do at Experian and TransUnion in most states.
Equifax is temporarily waiving its normal fee for a credit freeze as another part of its effort to make amends for its security breakdown.
All right, its official.
The Federal Reserve really, really, really is going to start to unwind the $4 trillion-plus in stimulus it put into the US economy to fight the Great Recession.
Really, it is.
The Fed said so last week.
No more talk.
Its time for real action.
Really.
The problem is, the Fed hasnt yet disclosed how it is going to make disappear all the extra trillions in money it printed as part of quantitative easing and all of QEs offspring.
And Im sure Fed Chair Janet Yellen doesnt appreciate people like me bringing up that point.
Follow the bouncing ball.
The Fed printed those extra trillions so it could go out and purchase US government bonds.
By using those trillions, the Fed pretended to be a real bond buyer (a shill, as its called) in order to keep demand and bond prices artificially high  and thus, yields artificially low.
Now, to get rid of the trillions, it has to put those currency printing presses in reverse.
Yes, I know they didnt really print paper money; it was all computer entries.
But its the same thing except that some trees were saved.
To unwind  the popular term  what it has done, the Fed must either sell those bonds or wait until they mature to cash them in.
But that wouldnt normalize, er, unwind, the Feds balance sheet.
It would simply turn trillions of bonds into trillions in cash.
The Fed, by law, has to turn its profits over to the US Treasury Department every year.
So those trillions of dollars will go  well, I dont know where the money will go because the Fed isnt saying.
Will the trillions be used by the Treasury, once it gets hold of the money, to pretend that the countrys $20 trillion in debt has suddenly declined?
I say pretend because, remember, that QE money isnt real.
It was printed for the sole purpose of rigging bond auctions to keep interest rates low.
Or will President Trumps administration suddenly think it has trillions more to spend because of the Feds gift to the Treasury?
Either of those options would, using a Wall Street word, monetize the debt and risk dangerous inflation.
The pretend money would enter the real economy.
And thats a big no-no.
Another possibility?
A big symbolic bonfire in front of the Treasury building where the extra currency will be set ablaze.
Dont get too excited.
Since theres no paper money, someone will just click a few buttons on a Treasury computer and the money will magically disappear.
Whats wrong with that?
Very bad precedent.
When countries fool with their currencies  printing fake money to rig markets  it bodes badly for foreign investor confidence.
And with the level of debt the US now has, it needs foreigners more than ever to continue to buy our bonds.
Really, it could turn out badly.
HELP WANTED: I need a lawyer to take on the case of a government worker named Stefani Butler who has been retaliated against by the Census Bureau because she was a whistleblower  my whistleblower.
Stefani is a black woman, which could add a discrimination dimension to this case.
The lawyer needs to work on a contingency basis, has to be versed in whistleblower law and preferably be in the Washington, DC, area.
Im still following the case closely and what Census did to Butler is not only a disgrace but also breaks the law.
Lawyers: Contact me at the e-mail address that follows.
This case is a slam dunk.
New York on Monday announced a settlement with two payday lender operators  barring them from working in the state and forcing them to forgive roughly 20,000 loans worth roughly $12 million.
Total Account Recovery (TAR), a payday loan debt collector, and E-Finance Call Center Support, a payday loan servicer, had for years profited from preying on borrowers who fell behind on the high interest- rate loans, some of which carried interest rates as high as 25 percent, according to the states Department of Financial Services.
Payday lending is illegal in New York, and DFS will not tolerate predatory actors in our communities, DFS Superintendent Maria Vullo said in a statement.
While payday lending is illegal in New York, state residents can fall prey to the predatory loans through out-of-state lenders trolling online.
Vullo called out E-Finance for making unlawful misrepresentations to New Yorkers when requesting payments and negotiating payment agreements.
Between 2011 and 2014, TAR succeeded in getting 2,119 delinquent borrowers to pay up.
It collected a fee in each case, according to the DFS.
TAR, headed by Jeremy Schaffer, and E-Finance, headed by Joshua Mitchem, according to court papers, will pay a $45,000 penalty plus as much as $15,000 to cover the cost of sending notices to consumers whose loans were forgiven.
It isnt the first time that TAR and E-Finance  and related entities  have come under fire.
The Post found 35 civil complaints filed in 15 states in which TAR and a predecessor, Total Recovery Solutions, were listed as defendants in civil actions over the last six years.
Many of the complaints were filed in states where payday lending is legal, but the states called out the entities for violations of the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act.
Attempts to reach lawyers for TAR and E-Finance were not successful.
When President Donald Trump unveils the latest version of his tax plan on Wednesday he will face two challenges: Staying on message, and trying to convince people his plan isn't a hand out for the rich.
Neither will be easy.
People close to the president are worried that he could undo months of careful work by GOP tax negotiators by restating his desire for a 15 percent corporate rate.
The negotiators have agreed to shoot for 20 percent, which Trump has never liked, though that number is part of the latest blueprint.
"He's the one guy left in Washington who still wants a 15 percent corporate rate," one person close to the president and the tax reform discussions told me this week.
"They could put 20 percent down on paper and he could go out and say 15 percent anyway.
He goes to these tax meetings and people just hammer him, but he still wants 15 percent."
There is also concern that Trump could use his speech Wednesday to go back into a riff on the NFL or some other issue intended to rally the base and muddy the message on taxes.
Republicans also worry that Trump could make unrealistic claims about the tax plan, including that it could ignite 6 percent annual economic growth.
That is something he reportedly said on Tuesday.
No serious economist thinks it is remotely plausible.
What Trump has to do instead, senior Republicans say, is continue to hammer home the message that cutting the corporate rate will be more internationally competitive.
And he needs to argue a switch to a territorial international tax system will cause more companies to spend and grow in the United States, leading to more jobs and better wages.
It's not an easy sell with most Americans believing corporations and the rich pay too little in taxes, not too much.
But Trump has actually proved adept so far at connecting the corporate side of the tax plan to jobs and incomes.
On the personal side of the equation, Trump also has a challenging case to make.
His plan calls for lowering the top rate from 39.6 percent to 35 percent.
It also calls for raising the bottom rate from 10 percent to 12 percent.
And it recommends lowering the "pass through" rate some individuals pay on business income to 25 percent.
It would also eliminate the alternative minimum tax and the inheritance tax, which Republicans label the "death tax."
All of these provisions tend to benefit the wealthy and hit those with the lowest incomes.
Trump has to make the case that his proposed doubling of the standard deduction and increased child tax credits would actually leave those at the lowest income level with more money in their pockets, not less.
And on the top end, GOP negotiators will point to the part of their blueprint that says Congress could consider adding a fourth, higher rate for top earners.
This area of the debate exposes a fissure within the GOP.
Trump very much wants to say he is not cutting taxes for the highest earners, and that the elimination of deductions and the possible higher top rate will ensure that.
But many Republicans on Capitol Hill, including House Ways and Means Chair Kevin Brady, aren't especially concerned with that perception.
They want to cut taxes for everyone and don't worry much about distribution charts that show benefits accruing to the wealthy.
But if Democrats can successfully show that any Republican plan showers benefits on the wealthy, they could tap into the majority of the country that wants to see the rich pay more.
This is also where the pass through issue gets very tricky.
GOP tax negotiators are promising there will be "guard rails" to ensure that rich doctors, lawyers, money managers and other white collar workers don't game the system.
One concern, for instance, is those higher-income workers could claim ordinary income as business income taxed at 25 percent.
Those working on the issue say those protections will be difficult to achieve.
And the decision to bump up the bottom rate to 12 percent, regardless of all the other changes, is an odd one that will give Democrats a huge opening to claim the plan lowers the tax burden on the rich while raising it on the poor  what the left has historically called "Robin Hood in reverse."
Republicans are now counting on Trump, famous for veering far off message into personal vendettas, to articulate a clear and consistent case on why the GOP tax blueprint would be good for all Americans.
And they are holding their breath.
Ben White is Politico's chief economic correspondent and a CNBC contributor.
He also authors the daily tip sheet Politico Morning Money [politico.com/morningmoney].
Follow him on Twitter @morningmoneyben.
A recent rise for the price of oil could be set to continue, according to one commodities analyst, who believes there is now a "real rebalancing" in the market.
"The fundamentals are changing and the market is rebalancing," Jodie Gunzberg, head of commodity and real asset indices at S&P Dow Jones Indices, told CNBC Wednesday.
This support is coming from several sources, including OPEC whose members are complying with production cuts and China where there is demand growth, according to Gunzberg.
"I think Hurricane Harvey really gave (oil) a boost, it was a catalyst for some of the disruptions in the refineries," she added.
"We are seeing real rebalancing in the oil market."
"When we look at the index data, we can see the price could move even as high as $80 to $85 (a barrel).
Not immediately, but with their structural backwardation and shortages in the market, you just can't replenish it overnight," she said.
A backwardation occurs when futures contracts expiring at later dates are trading lower than current prices.
Brent closed as $59.02 per barrel on Monday, its highest since July 2015 and Gunzberg noted that Brent had entered a technical bull market.
Russia may retaliate against US in dispute over military observation flights 44 Mins Ago | 00:45

Russia will retaliate against the United States in a rumbling dispute over a treaty that allows both countries to conduct military observation flights over each other's territory, Russian news agencies reported on Wednesday.
The United States has accused Russia of flouting the so-called Open Skies Treaty and said it plans to take retaliatory measures against Moscow which could mean restricting Russian military observation flights over U.S. territory.
Russian news agencies cited Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov on Wednesday as saying Moscow was unhappy about Washington's compliance with the same treaty and would take its own measures against the United States in response to any new U.S. restrictions.
British Prime Minister Theresa May said she was bitterly disappointed by a U.S. decision to slap heavy duties on Bombardier Inc's CSeries jets which are partly made in Northern Ireland.
May had urged U.S. President Donald Trump to help find a solution to the Boeing-Bombardier dispute which has put around 4,200 jobs at risk in the British province where the jet's wings are made.
Boeing accuses Bombardier of dumping its new CSeries passenger jet in the U.S. market and says the aircraft is being unfairly subsidized by Canada, a charge the Canadian firm denies.
The U.S. Commerce Department on Tuesday imposed a preliminary anti-subsidy 220 percent duty on the jets.
"Bitterly disappointed by initial Bombardier ruling," May said on Twitter.
"The government will continue to work with the company to protect vital jobs for Northern Ireland."
Markets have been complacent about volatility, asset manager says 2:11 AM ET Tue, 26 Sept 2017 | 02:23

A reversal of recent low volatility in markets, paired with a rethink by global investors on the attractiveness of stocks, could have "devastating" effects, according to Gina Sanchez, CEO of Chantico Global.
Markets in the U.S. have ticked higher since the election of President Donald Trump, aided by promises of reforms, tax cuts and infrastructure spending.
Meanwhile, investors have also diversified into other assets and have grown fond of trading volatility products to gain some extra return.
"If you consider the markets could get into a phase where they're rethinking what is happening," she told CNBC Tuesday, referring to the ability of U.S. lawmakers to push through new reforms.
"One of the elements that has been pervasive since the Trump election has actually been this incredible diversification effect that's been happening, meaning that pairwise correlations really broke down," she said.
Oil at $60 by the end of the decade?
9 Hours Ago | 15:52

It's "not unreasonable" to expect oil prices at $60 a barrel by the end of the decade, Royal Dutch Shell CEO Ben van Beurden told CNBC's "Managing Asia."
To be sure, that's not a large rise from current levels.
Brent crude rose 0.38 percent to trade at $58.66 a barrel in Wednesday Asia trade, after hitting a 26-month high on Tuesday, while U.S. crude was higher by 0.5 percent at $52.14 at 12:00 p.m. HK/SIN.
Van Beurden said forecasting oil prices in the short term was "very difficult," but he still expected gains.
"I do think oil prices are going to go up over time as a result of the tightening of the market," he said.
"It's not unreasonable to expect that if you want to make financial projections going out in the future, you want to make projections around $60 oil by the end of the decade."
He noted that growth in oil demand has been fairly consistent, increasing approximately 1.6 million to 1.7 million barrels a day, with the exception of outlier years affected by events such as the financial crisis.
Supply in the oil markets, however, was a considerably more complicated picture, he explained.
"It's a mix of OPEC, it's shales, it's large complex projects and they each have their own dynamic in terms of response time to prices ... And on top of it, there's a lot of sentiment that is feeding the markets," van Beurden said.
But the slim gains in oil prices didn't appear likely to have an out-sized impact on the company's performance.
Royal Dutch Shell expects to have a "significant, higher amount" of free cash flow with oil at $60 a barrel than when it was at $90 years ago, van Beurden said.
"Nobody can predict how it's going to play out," he said, adding that those in the commodity business needed to be prepared for downturns.
"Therefore, our mindset needs to be building resilience.
And you do it with a 'lower forever' mindset," he said.
By ensuring that projects had the lowest possible break-even price, the company would be able to survive even if oil prices came down further, van Beurden said.
"If you have a strategy that is predicated on really trying to understand what the future of the oil price is going to be, and then betting on it, I think you're basically betting the company.
So you should never have that as a philosophy," he explained.
Oil prices spiked early this week after Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan warned about cutting off a pipeline carrying oil from the semiautonomous Kurdish region in Iraq to Turkey.
The threat came after Kurds voted in an independence referendum which was opposed by several countries, including the U.S. and Turkey, Reuters reported.
Is Uber in trouble?
8:02 AM ET Thu, 27 July 2017 | 04:41

Ride-hailing service Uber said on Tuesday it will stop operating in the Canadian province of

Quebec next month, pulling out to avoid following tough new regulations announced last week.
Uber is withdrawing from Canada's second-most populous province as it also battles a decision to strip the company of its license to operate in London, the latest in a series of regulatory attacks on Uber as new Chief Executive Dara Khosrowshahi seeks to rebuild the company's image.
Uber's Quebec general manager, Jean-Nicolas Guillemette, said the company would cease operations in the province on Oct. 14.
Uber employs more than 50 office workers in the province, where more than 10,000 drivers have worked for the company, he said.
The company left room to reverse its decision, calling on the government to reconsider regulations announced on Friday that tightened up the rules of a pilot project that had let Uber operate since October last year.
"We're asking the government to renew the pilot project and let's sit down and find a solution to this," Guillemette said.
U.S. money manager Invesco may announce a deal to purchase Guggenheim Partners' exchange-traded fund business on Thursday, the Financial Times reported on Wednesday, citing two people familiar with the matter.
Invesco is expected to pay between $1.1 billion and $1.3 billion in cash for the purchase, which has yet to be finalized, the newspaper said, citing the unnamed sources.
Guggenheim's ETF business has around $30 billion in assets under management, while Invesco has $125 billion under management, making it the fourth largest ETF manager globally, the report said.
Wilbur Ross: China 'quite serious' about living up to N.Korea commitments 16 Hours Ago | 02:23

China is "quite serious about living up to the commitments they have made regarding North Korea," U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said on Wednesday.
The order for mainland lenders to stop doing business with Pyongyang "is a logical next step in the sanctions, and a very important one," he told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
"Chinese commercial banks had been a big route for facilitation of trade to North Korea so the fact that the PBOC has put out a taboo, that's a very big deal," the billionaire said, referring to China's central bank, or the People's Bank of China.
Last week, sources told Reuters that the PBOC had instructed domestic banks to implement United Nations sanctions against the rogue state.
The development comes on the heels of Pyongyang's sixth nuclear test earlier this month and follows incessant demands from President Donald Trump for more Chinese action against North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.
On Tuesday, the U.S. Treasury Department announced new sanctions on banks and individuals tied to the isolated nation as part of efforts to cut off financial support for Kim's weapons programs.
The PBOC move was "a gigantic step" and assuming that it's followed through, "that's a very good sign, it's very, very important pressure," said 79-year-old Ross, who made a fortune investing in distressed assets before joining the White House.
India's economic growth hit a three-year low during the April-June period, enveloping Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a barrage of criticism for poor execution of major reforms such as the recent national sales tax and demonetization.
But a new World Economic Forum study indicates his government has made progress in strengthening overall business sentiment.
The South Asian giant ranked 40th out of 137 countries on the organization's 2017 global competitiveness ranking  one spot lower than last year's edition, but still its highest-ever score in WEF's current methodology.
National competitiveness is defined as a set of institutions, policies and factors that determine a country's level of productivity.
Improvement across most pillars of competitiveness, particularly infrastructure and higher education, reflects recent public investments in these areas, WEF said.
Strides in labor market efficiency, especially the nation's ability to attract and retain talent, also helped India's 2017 ranking, the Swiss foundation added.
"The quality of institutions has increased further, especially in terms of efficiency of public spending."
Modi's government has pledged to spend a record $60 billion on infrastructure this financial year, but concerns are rampant that lower tax collections and weak economic growth could force New Delhi to cut expenditures.
A ruling by the U.S. Commerce Department about alleged subsidies for airplanes built in Canada could move the U.S. and its neighbor to the north toward a costly trade war.
The International Trade Commission, a committee within the Commerce Department, ruled in favor of Boeing after the company complained Canada-based Bombardier received government subsidies allowing it to sell its new C Series airplane at a steep discount.
The ITC not only agreed with Boeing, it determined Bombardier's planes should be slapped with a 219.63 percent tariff, far higher than Boeing was proposing.
"The U.S. values its relationships with Canada, but even our closest allies must play by the rules," said Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross.
"The subsidization of goods by foreign governments is something that the Trump Administration takes very seriously, and we will continue to evaluate and verify the accuracy of this preliminary determination."
Nike delivered a mixed bag of results on Tuesday, posting strong sales growth in its international geographies, particularly China.
But wholesale revenues continued to decline in North America into the fiscal first quarter.
In a competitive retail environment, Nike has been seen as racking up expenses, favoring discounts and heavy spending to grow its direct-to-consumer business.
Nike said on Tuesday, though, that it's been working to cut costs, reporting that selling, general and administrative expenses fell 1 percent, to $2.9 billion, in the first quarter.
The athletic footwear and apparel retailer's stock was falling more than 3 percent after market close on the news.
Shares had initially climbed near 3 percent.
Here's what Nike reported, compared to what Wall Street was expecting, based on a Thomson Reuters survey of analysts:

Earnings of 57 cents a share, excluding items, compared with a forecast profit of 48 cents per share.
Revenue was $9.07 billion, versus an estimate of $9.08 billion.
"This quarter, we captured near-term opportunities through our new Consumer Direct Offense," CEO Mark Parker said in a statement.
"Looking ahead to the rest of fiscal 2018, we will ignite NIKE's next horizon of global growth through the strength of our brand, the power of our innovative products and the most personal, digitally-connected experiences in our industry," Parker added.
Nike's first-quarter net income fell to $950 million, or 57 cents per share, from $1.25 billion, or 73 cents per share, one year ago.
The 24 percent drop in quarterly profit could be attributed to gross margin decline, a higher effective tax rate and other expenses, Nike said.
Excluding certain items, Nike earned 57 cents a share, topping analysts' estimate of 48 cents per share, according to a Thomson Reuters survey.
Total revenue was $9.07 billion, about flat when compared to the same period last year.
Revenue for the Nike brand was $8.6 billion, up 2 percent on a currency-neutral basis, while sales for Converse were $483 million, down 16 percent and driven lower by declines in North America, the company said.
Nike added that it repurchased a total of 15.3 million shares for about $849 million during the first quarter, part of its four-year, $12 billion buyback program, which was approved in 2015.
As of Aug. 31, 2017, Nike has repurchased 95 million shares under the program, for $5.3 billion.
A lower average share count this quarter helped the company offset other expenses, Nike explained.
Looking to its product categories, Nike saw the highest sales, or $5.5 billion, in footwear.
Nike's apparel revenue came in at $2.7 billion for the quarter, while equipment revenue was $420 million.
In June, Nike revealed plans to cut about 2 percent of its global workforce, also trimming its geography segments from six to four: North America; Europe, Middle East and Africa; Greater China; and Asia-Pacific and Latin America.
Nike's Greater China segment in the first quarter brought $1.1 billion in sales, up 9 percent from a year ago.
North America sales came in at $3.9 billion, down 3 percent and weighing on Nike's overall results.
"The decrease in revenue was a function of short-term promotional headwinds in the broader marketplace," CEO Parker said on the company's earnings conference call about Nike's domestic sales.
Nike's Asia Pacific & Latin America revenue rose 5 percent, while Europe, Middle East & Africa sales were up 4 percent for the quarter.
Micron Technology reported fourth-quarter earnings and revenue that beat analysts' expectations on Tuesday.
Here's how the company did compared with what Wall Street expected:

EPS: $2.02 vs. $1.83 expected, according to Thomson Reuters

Revenue: $6.14 billion vs. $5.96 billion expected, according to Thomson Reuters

In the year-ago quarter, Micron reported an adjusted loss per share of 1 cent on $3.22 billion in revenue.
Micron shares gained as much as 4 percent in after-hours trade.
CEO Sanjay Mehrotra said Micron expects "healthy industry fundamentals to continue into 2018."
For the fiscal first quarter, Micron said it expects earnings between $2.09 and $2.23 a share on revenue between $6.10 billion and $6.50 billion.
Those ranges were well above Street expectations.
Analysts had projected first-quarter earnings of about $1.85 per share on $6.06 billion in revenue, according to Thomson Reuters consensus estimates.
Wall Street has said Micron could benefit from growing demand for memory products as new technology markets open up.
Areas like artificial intelligence and networking may drive a growing share of demand for products from chipmakers like Micron.
Analysts have been optimistic about the stock.
The average price target on Micron shares was near $44.88 before Tuesday's close, implying a roughly 29 percent upside.
Shares of Micron have rocketed nearly 60 percent so far this year, outperforming the 23 percent gain in the broader S&P 500 Information Technology sector.
The stock hit a 52-week intraday high of $36.60 last week.
The stock closed at $34.18 on Tuesday.
This is breaking news.
Please check back for updates.
Last week, we learned that Treasury Secretary Steve "Can I borrow a government jet for my honeymoon" Mnuchin isn't the only one in the Trump administration who goes to great, taxpayer-funded lengths to avoid taking commercial flights like some kind of commoner.
Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price, too, has all but made it a rule that he must travel via chartered planes, following a traumatic incident wherein the former congressman suffered through a flight delay.
(Never again, he swore.)
According to an investigation by Politico, since being confirmed, Price has taken private planes for official business at a cost of at least $400,000 to taxpayers, often for short trips like from D.C. to Philadelphia where airline tickets run in the low hundreds, and a car or train ride would have just as easily sufficed.
In contrast, Price's predecessor, Kathleen Sebelius took just one private flight during her five-plus years on the job, to a remote part of Alaska that would have been otherwise unreachable.
Invoicing taxpayers to avoid even the possibility of being delayed was never going to be a great look.
But for Price, the optics are especially bad because 1) he is currently working to cut billions of dollars in health-care subsidies and slash funding from the National Institutes of Health and 2) back when he was a congressman, he literally made railing against the use of private jets by government employees one of his pet causes.
James Dyson , the billionaire inventor of the bagless vacuum cleaner, said his company was building a "radical" all-electric car for launch in 2020, with a commitment to spend 2 billion pounds ($2.7 billion) on solid-state battery technology and vehicle design.
Dyson said a 400-strong team of engineers had already spent two and a half years working on the secret project in Malmesbury, Wiltshire, developing the batteries that will power the in-house designed electric motor for the car.
He said on Tuesday he had not yet decided where the vehicle would be manufactured, although he had ruled out working with any existing auto companies.
This was supposed to be a big week for President Trump.
His hopes of repealing and replacing Obamacare hang in the balance.
He's set to push a major tax reform plan.
He's campaigned hard for a Republican candidate whose Alabama primary race is on Tuesday.
And he's trying to project strength and efficiency as his administration grapples with the aftermath of hurricanes in Texas, Florida, and Puerto Rico  and the nuclear threat from North Korea.
So what's Trump talking about at the start of this critical week?
More from USA Today:

Analysis: Trump's approach to sports breaks with long bipartisan tradition

Sanders on Trump's NFL insults: 'It's always appropriate' for president to defend flag

Equifax CEO retiring amid cyberbreach fallout

Football players.
So far, Trump appears to be forgoing a closing argument on his policy proposals  and instead escalating his feud with the National Football League and superstar athletes.
Ever since he called football players who sit or kneel during the national anthem "sons of b-----" at a rally on Friday and encouraged the NFL to fire them for their political protest, Trump has perpetuated the controversy  for four straight days.
Trump has tweeted or retweeted comments about the NFL flap at least 18 times since Saturday morning.
Star football and basketball athletes have in turn accused Trump of racially charged threats to free speech  and the squabble playing out over Twitter and the news media is dwarfing his message on the rest of his agenda.
That may be the plan, some analysts said, because many of those other issues aren't going so well.
"Trump will always change the subject if there's something bad going on," said Republican strategist Rich Galen.
Others said it's just Trump being Trump  responding to whatever catches his eye.
"I think it's classic Trump, listening to his gut and letting it rip," said Ari Fleischer, former press secretary to Republican President George W. Bush.
Whatever his motivation, Trump is ensuring that his feud with pro sports is getting a stadium full of attention at a pivotal time for an administration facing low approval ratings, political divisions among Republicans, and even threats of war over North Korea.
In the Senate, Republicans are struggling to round up enough votes behind a plan to repeal and replace President Barack Obama's health care law.
The Republicans are racing against the clock.
After Sept. 30, the chamber's rules change and lawmakers won't be able to pass a new bill with just 50 votes.
This is critical, since past health care efforts to overhaul health care have failed even with 52 Republicans.
A health care success could give Trump legislative momentum as he lobbies for a tax reform; a defeat could make it that much tougher.
Trump is launching a national tour of political battleground states to promote a package to reduce the corporate tax rate and simplify the tax code.
On Wednesday, he is scheduled to visit Indiana to discuss tax reform.
Trump himself faces a big political test on Tuesday, in a political primary race taking place in a hotbed for college football: Alabama.
The president has gone out of his way to back Sen. Luther Strange, who was appointed to the seat after Trump named Jeff Sessions as attorney general.
Strange is opposed Roy Moore, who is backed by prominent Trump supporters such as former vice presidential nominee Sarah Palin and former White House senior adviser Steve Bannon.
Polls give Moore an edge  and a Strange loss would deal Trump a defeat in his personal efforts to reshape the Republican Party.
In his remarks to at the rally, Trump said he was taking a "big risk" with his endorsement of Strange "because if Luther doesn't make it they're going to go after me" and argue he has no political strength.
"I might have made a mistake and I'll be honest I might have made a mistake.
Because, you know, here's a story, if Luther doesn't win, they're not going to say we picked up 25 points in a very short period of time," he said.
"They're going to say Donald Trump, the president of the United States, was unable to pull his candidate across the line.
It is a terrible, terrible moment for Trump.
This is total embarrassment.
I mean, these are bad people."
Yet Trump's support for Strange on Friday night in Huntsville were not what generated the headlines from the rally.
Instead, there was one epic line that's still circulating on the media: "Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say get that son of a bitch off the field right now?
He's fired!
he's fired!"
Trump told a cheering crowd.
Trump's follow-up tweets throughout the weekend  including one in which he uninvited pro basketball champions Golden State Warriors to the White House  drew hits from a succession of pro athletes.
They ranged from basketball's LeBron James, who called Trump a "bum," to football's Tom Brady, who said Trump's comments were "just divisive."
The sports question dominated the White House press briefing on Monday.
Pressed about whether Trump went too far by using the words "sons of b----," spokeswoman Sarah Sanders repeatedly deflected, insisting it was "always appropriate" for the president of the United States to defend the American flag and national anthem.
"Look, this isn't about the president being against anyone," she said.
"But this is about the president and millions of Americans being for something, being for honoring our flag, honoring our national anthem and honoring the men and women who fought to defend it."
It's not just domestic policy challenges that Trump is facing this week.
Trump went to the United Nations last week to confront North Korea over its nuclear weapons program.
Describing Kim Jong Un as "Rocket Man," Trump said the North Korean leader is risking "suicide" if it attacks the United States or its allies in Asia  and raised the specter of nuclear warfare.
On Monday in New York, North Korean foreign minister Ri Yong Ho told reporters his country regards Trump's comments as a declaration of war.
"Since the U.S. declared war on our country, we will have every right to make countermeasures, including the right to shoot down the U.S. bombers even when they are not yet inside the airspace border of our country," he said.
Also hovering over the administration: An ongoing investigation by special counsel Robert Mueller into possible links between Trump's team and Russians who sought to influence last year's presidential election, and whether the president sought to obstruct justice by firing FBI Director James Comey.
"Don't forget he's got Mueller breathing down his neck," Republican strategist Galen said.
Changing the subject has been a habit for Trump, whether it's holding a 77-minute news conference in order to generate new headlines after firing National Security Adviser Michael Flynn or claiming there were millions of illegal voters after he lost the popular vote to Democrat Hillary Clinton.
Republican consultant Liz Mair, who worked with "Never Trump" organizations during last year's campaign, said the bottom line is whether Trump has "successfully distracted his base" from bad news stories.
The NFL flap may look "stupid and ham-handed to a lot of Beltway consultant types," Mair said, but remember: It could work for him because millions of Americans agree with his position.
"Ultimately, there's a lot of data out there showing that sports fans really do rally to the national anthem," Mair said.
"If the numbers of players who take a knee rises and that's perceived as anti-national anthem or anti-flag, it could become a big repetitional problem for the NFL and individual teams, fairly or not."
Fleischer, who now runs a sports communications company, said Trump made a valid point in bad way, particularly with the reference to "sons of b----."
The flap surrounding his comments is the kind of thing that has happened before, he said, and will likely happen again.
"This has been the Trump candidacy and the Trump presidency for two years now," he said.
"It's his style."
Space company Rocket Lab announced plans Tuesday for the second of three test flights.
Final vehicle tests begin next month, the New Zealand-based company said.
The window for the launch from Rocket Lab's complex on New Zealand's Mahia Peninsula will open a few weeks after completion of the tests, it said.
The mission involves deploying four small satellites from private companies Planet Labs and Spire.
In its inaugural launch on May 25, Rocket Lab's Electron vehicle failed to reach orbit.
CEO Peter Beck said problems involving "third-party error" have been fixed and no major change was made to Electron's hardware.
"We're eager to test the next crucial step  payload deployment," Beck said in a statement.
This would be the first test of its orbital deployment systems, which Beck called "a significant milestone for the Electron program."
Planet Labs senior director Mike Safyan said his company was excited "to quite literally be riding the leading edge."
Spire CEO Peter Platzer called the rapid preparations key to the success of his company and Rocket Lab.
Planet Lab's two Dove satellites will be used for Earth imagining, and Spire's Lemur-2 satellites are intended for mapping weather and tracking ships.
Rocket Lab's second test comes at a critical time.
It has contracted to launch five Electron rockets for lunar mining company Moon Express as early as next spring.
Lufthansa's supervisory board has approved plans by the airline to invest in up to 61 additional planes for its Eurowings budget arm, seeking to fill the gap left by insolvent German rival Air Berlin.
The investment in purchasing and leasing 41 A320 single aisle jets and 20 Bombardier Dash 8 Q400 planes will total around 1 billion euros ($1.2 billion) and is partly dependent on a successful conclusion of talks to take over assets from Air Berlin, Lufthansa said on Tuesday.
Kohl's said Tuesday Chairman and CEO Kevin Mansell will retire in May, having served 35 years with the department store chain.
Mansell will be succeeded by Chief Merchandising and Customer Officer Michelle Gass, who spent nearly two decades working at coffee giant Starbucks and began her career with Procter & Gamble.
The board plans to appoint one of its independent members as chairman, effective when Mansell retires at the close of Kohl's 2018 shareholders meeting.
Gass will stand for election to the company's board at that time.
The company also said it tapped Sona Chawla, its chief operating officer as president.
Prior to joining Kohl's, Chawla worked at Walgreens Boots Alliance.
"We believe these are strong internal promotions with the necessary skill set to take KSS to the next level," Jefferies analyst Randal Konik wrote in a Tuesday note to clients.
"We continue to view KSS as a share gainer, and see further [opportunity] as initiatives take hold."
Konik noted that Gass has been spearheading Kohl's latest partnership with Amazon.
Just last week, Kohl's announced it will accept Amazon returns at 82 locations.
The department store chain has also begun selling Amazon devices, such as the Echo and Fire tablets, at 10 stores.
For Kohl's, these deals could lure more shoppers into its stores, as falling foot traffic has become a threatening trend in retail.
In an interview with CNBC, Mansell said Gass has "an amazing ability to lead teams and inspire people."
"Everything in her development and growth, for example, bringing in new brands, our collaboration with Amazon, these are all indications about someone that has a mind for innovation, which is a litmus test in this environment," Mansell said.
Mansell's nearly decade-long tenure as CEO coincided with the Great Recession.
During that time, he grew the retailer's e-commerce business to $3 billion in sales.
In a statement, Gass acknowledged the challenges the industry faces.
"We are resilient, innovative and agile, and will continue to make investments in our business to provide compelling customer experiences that pave the path for our future success," the incoming CEO said.
Kohl's shares were off less than 1 percent in trading Tuesday.
The stock has fallen about 6 percent in 2017, but is up more than 20 percent during the past three months.
CNBC's Courtney Reagan contributed to this reporting.
The inability of the U.S administration to pass new tax cuts has delayed the next boom and bust cycle in the country, according to one economist, who is still predicting that the U.S. is ultimately headed for a recession.
Adam Posen, president of the Peterson Institute for International Economics, told CNBC in March that he believed the U.S. was facing a downturn in the next two years as a result of excessive fiscal stimulus from the Trump administration.
On Tuesday, he revealed his view had now changed.
"First, like a lot of people, but I'll take it on myself, I got wrong the timing of the tax cuts.
I couldn't believe they would spend this long before getting to a budget with Congress, that they would waste all this time on non-proposals with health care," he told CNBC on Tuesday.
Posen, who served at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in the mid-1990s, said stimulus is still on the way in the form of significant business tax cuts that will be unfunded, but will be a year later than he thought.
"That pushes back the date at which the Fed will have to raise (interest rates) a lot," he said.
Posen's prediction is that tax cuts and deregulation will lead to a boom-bust cycle as the Federal Reserve will tighten policy to stave off a credit boom.
Despite the administration's failure to pass much major legislation, as well as divisions in the Republican Party, Posen does believe tax cuts will be delivered as politicians will want a win ahead of the mid-term elections.
"They can't go into the mid-term elections, face constituents and have done nothing.
The failures in health care and everything else means they have to deliver and tax cuts are the most obvious thing," he said.
"Secondly, I've always been very cynical of Congress' so-called budget hawks on the budget.
The history of the U.S. basically since 1974, every time Congress passes a rule on itself to restrict the budget, it violates that rule within two to four years."
He says the idea that Tea Party Republicans and budget hawks won't allow tax cuts because they may bust the budget is "ridiculous" and predicts they will all agree on tax cuts in the end.
Nestle said strong cash generation would let it accelerate its share buyback program of up to 20 billion Swiss francs ($20.67 billion) by spreading it evenly over three years, instead of backloading it in 2019 and 2020 as initially announced in June.
Nestle shares were up 1 percent at 81.95 Swiss francs by 5.10 a.m.
ET and investors were broadly supportive of the plan.
"This is a balance that gives them the ability to stay at work without having the distraction of whether they'll concede a margin guidance, but at the same time not burden themselves from making the kind of bold investments that are required to deliver long-term value," said Thomas Russo of Gardner Russo & Gardner, which has a Nestle stake worth more than $1 billion.
Russo, whose firm is based in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, has been a sizeable shareholder for over 30 years.
The difference between Nestle and other consumer companies that have a higher margin target, Russo said, is that "they have enormous fuel in their tank going forward and others end up running out of gas by virtue of making higher near-term results than Nestle's."
ZKB analyst Patrik Schwendimann was also positive.
"We consider the new margin target as reasonable because it leaves room for investment in the future and to reach the unchanged target of mid-single digit sales growth by 2020," he said in a note.
The AP also found that tons of Ivanka Trump clothing were exported from 2013 to 2015 by a company owned by the Chinese government, according to public records and trade data.
It is unclear whether the brand is still working with that company, or other state-owned entities.
Her brand has pledged to avoid business with state-owned companies now that she's a White House adviser, but contends that its supply chains are not its direct responsibility.
Ivanka Trump's brand doesn't actually make its products directly.
Instead, it contracts with licensees who oversee production of her merchandise.
In exchange, those licensees pay the brand royalties.
The AP asked Ivanka Trump's brand for a list of its suppliers.
The company declined to disclose them.
The clothing, footwear and handbag licensees contacted by AP also declined to reveal source factories.
Abigail Klem, president of IT Operations, which manages Ivanka Trump's brand, said the company does not contract with foreign state-owned companies or benefit from Chinese government subsidies.
However, she acknowledged that its licensees might.
"We license the rights to our brand name to licensing companies that have their own supply chains and distribution networks," Klem said in an email.
"The brand receives royalties on sales to wholesalers and would not benefit if a licensee increased its profit margin by obtaining goods at a lower cost," she added.
But Michael Stone, chairman of Beanstalk, a global brand licensing agency, said lower production costs for licensees would ultimately benefit Ivanka Trump by freeing up money for marketing or lower retail prices, both of which drive sales.
"It gives her a competitive advantage and an indirect benefit to her financially," Stone said.
"The more successful the licensee is the more successful Ivanka Trump is going to be."
The AP identified companies that sent Ivanka Trump products to the United States by looking at shipment data maintained by ImportGenius and Panjiva Inc., private companies that independently track global trade.
Panjiva's records show that 85 percent of shipments of her goods to the U.S. this year originated in China and Hong Kong, but beyond that, it's becoming more difficult to map the brand's global footprint.
The companies that shipped Ivanka Trump merchandise to the U.S. are listed for just five of 57 shipments logged by Panjiva from the end of March, when she officially became a presidential adviser, through mid-September.
Panjiva collects data from U.S. Customs and Border Protection, which did not immediately release the missing data to AP.
While in many cases the manufacturer ships goods directly, merchandise can also be made by one company and shipped by another trading or consolidation company.
There used to be more visibility.
Last year, 27 percent of the companies that exported Ivanka Trump merchandise to the U.S. were identified in Panjiva's records, and back in 2014 a full 95 percent were named.
For two of Ivanka Trump's licensees  G-III Apparel and Marc Fisher Footwear  the number of shipments appears to plunge in 2015, likely because they "requested to hide" their shipment activity, according to Panjiva records.
Neither company responded to AP's questions.
The brand declined to comment on the growing murkiness of its supply chain.
Chris Rogers, an analyst at Panjiva, said any company can ask customs authorities to redact its information for any reason.
About a quarter of companies request anonymity, he said, but the majority don't mind disclosing who they're doing business with.
"A lot of companies have said, 'yes there might be a commercial disadvantage, but we want to be transparent about our supply chain,'" he explained.
"'Why would we want to cover up the fact that we're working with this particular company?'"
While ethics lawyers may see disclosure as the best antidote to conflict of interest, many brands see it as a tool to keep supply chains scandal-free.
Public outcry over sweatshop conditions and worker suicides prompted companies like Nike Inc. and Apple Inc. to disclose the names and addresses of their manufacturers, and a growing number, including Gap Inc., the H&M Group, New Balance Athletics Inc., Adidas AG and Levi Strauss & Co., publicly identify their suppliers.
Ivanka Trump should do the same, said Allen Adamson, founder and CEO of BrandSimple Consulting.
"It's a missed opportunity to lead by example."
What shipping records do show is that a company called Zhejiang Tongxiang Foreign Trade Group Co. Ltd., a sprawling conglomerate once majority-owned by the Chinese state, sent at least 30 tons of Ivanka Trump handbags to the U.S. between March 2016 and February.
Ataribox  the latest console from gaming pioneer Atari  will likely hit stores next year.
The console will be powered by an AMD-customized processor and run on operating system Linux.
In an announcement Tuesday, the Ataribox team said it would seek to raise funds for the console on crowd-funding platform Indiegogo "this fall (read: pretty soon)."
"We want you to have early access, grab special editions (and pricing) and to have you as active partners in the rollout of Ataribox," the team said.
Atari's newest console is a modern take on the popular late 1970s console, the Atari 2600.
Ataribox claims it will bring a "full PC experience for the TV," and deliver home-focused features such as video streaming, social media, web browsing and music.
The brand has developed some of the most well-known household names in arcade gaming, like Pong.
A diamond weighing 1,109 carats  the largest found since 1905  has sold for $53 million.
The Lesedi La Rona, which means "Our Light" in the Twsana language, was found in a Botswana mine in November 2015.
It is the third biggest diamond ever found, and the second largest of gem quality.
Diamond miner Lucara announced it had sold the Lesedi La Rona to Graff Diamonds on Monday for $53 million, or $47,777 per carat.
"The discovery of the Lesedi La Rona was a company defining event for Lucara.
It solidified the amazing potential and rareness of the diamonds recovered at the Karowe mine," William Lamb, president and CEO of Lucara, said in a press release.
"The price paid is also an improvement on the highest bid received at the Sotheby's auction in June 2016."
German industrial group Siemens is likely to decide on Tuesday to pursue a multibillion-dollar rail merger with French rival Alstom rather than Canada's Bombardier, two sources familiar with the matter told Reuters.
The three major train and rail technology groups active in Europe have been looking at combining their businesses as larger Chinese state-backed rival CRRC embarks on a global expansion drive.
"I think Alstom will make it," one of the people said on Monday.
The second person said Siemens' supervisory board would decide the matter on Tuesday, also describing Alstom as the front-runner.
Siemens, Alstom and Bombardier declined to comment.
Siemens and Alstom are strong in high-speed intercity trains with their ICE and TGV models.
Siemens is also the leader in signalling technology, while Bombardier - whose transportation headquarters are in Berlin - is stronger in commuter and light-rail trains.
The Franco-German deal would come just as plans by German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron for closer integration may be undermined by Merkel's weak showing in Sunday's national election.
It would also represent a reconciliation of sorts between Siemens and Alstom, which snubbed the German company in 2014 to sell its energy division to General Electric in a deal that also saw Paris take a 20 percent stake in

Alstom, under a temporary agreement with construction group Bouygues.
Siemens Mobility is expected to be merged into Alstom, in which Siemens would hold 50 percent plus one share, while the chief executive would be Alstom's current boss Henri-Poupart Lafarge.
While China snakes its influence in technology across the African continent, one of its smaller neighbors has also been making inroads in countries far from home.
South Korea, one of the Far East's technological powerhouses, claims to have a stronghold in the central African country of Rwanda.
The unlikely story begins with KT Corporation (KT), a South Korean telecoms giant, which started helping to form the backbone to Rwanda's communications infrastructure a decade ago.
The state-owned company currently builds and operates ICT services in Rwanda's public and private markets, and provides a 4G service in partnership with the Rwandan government.
Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba said on Tuesday it invested an additional 5.3 billion yuan, or $807 million, to increase its stake in logistics firm Cainiao Smart Logistics to 51 percent.
Prior to the deal, Alibaba held 47 percent of Cainiao, it said in a press release.
The deal would give Alibaba an additional seat on Cainiao's board, raising its total to four out of seven seats.
The deal is expected to be completed in October.
Alibaba added that it expects to invest 100 billion yuan, or $15.2 billion, over the next five years to boost its global logistics network.
The company said it wants to fulfill orders on the mainland withing 24 hours and within 72 hours globally.
Credit Suisse acted as Alibaba's financial adviser and Morgan Stanley advised Cainiao, the statement said.
Far Eastern Group, one of Taiwan's largest conglomerates, is weighing acquisition deals in China, as prices for assets in overcapacity sectors have become "competitive," the company's chairman said on Tuesday.
But Far Eastern Group Chairman Douglas Hsu said his company wasn't necessarily rushing into deals.
Price wasn't the only issue, Hsu told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on the sidelines of the Forbes Global CEO Conference in Hong Kong.
"The big point you have to really have to consider is if you can withstand the excess capacity and for how long will this excess capacity will continue to be there," Hsu added.
The Chinese government has been implementing supply-side reforms in the industrial sector, but buyers of those assets still need to be able to manage any excess capacity, he said.
While some companies Far Eastern is looking at have to deal with the excess capacity, others need management changes to adapt to a global market, he said, adding that companies broadly need to evolve as technology advances, he said.
With over 200 companies under its fold, Far Eastern Group's total assets are valued at $75.8 billion and run the gamut from cement and textiles to retail.
"North Korea's air defenses are not great," said Ian Williams, associate director of the Missile Defense Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a Washington-based think tank.
"That's actually one area of missile technology where they haven't made huge advances in the past few years."
Analysts told CNBC the North's new KN-06 surface-to-air missile system could provide some protection for the regime and looks like Russia's S-300 air defense system.
That said, not a lot is known about KN-06's radar capabilities.
It has been trotted out at military parades, and Pyongyang's state media declared the anti-aircraft weapon operational in May.
Over the weekend, the U.S. Air Force said B-1B Lancer bombers and F-15C Eagle fighter jets flew in international airspace over waters just east of North Korea.
The U.S. flexing its military muscle follows heated rhetoric recently between North Korea's leader, Kim Jong Un, and Trump, who last week in an address at the United Nations said that the U.S. could "totally destroy North Korea."
The B-1B bombers flew from the U.S. Pacific territory of Guam, where the U.S. has military bases and an estimated 6,000 troops.
Also, the U.S. has around 25,800 troops stationed in South Korea, as well as approximately 50,000 service members in Japan.
"Right now it's still a lot of words, and it's a lot of words by two leaders that tend to bluster a bit," Williams said.
"One of them, particularly Kim Jong Un, if he feels that conflict is inevitable ... then his strategic position is one where he would gain a lot by taking the first move."
Navy Adm. James Stavridis, dean of the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, put chances of a nuclear war with North Korea at 10 percent and the chance of a conventional conflict with the regime at 50/50, according to the Times.
The admiral told the paper a war could potentially start if North Korea fires a missile that strikes on Guam or lands near the U.S. territory.
It could potentially result in the U.S. striking back against North Korea with Tomahawk cruise missiles, as it did on a Syrian government airbase after a chemical attack in April.
And while Syria just took the blow, Kim Jong Un might respond more forcefully to avoid looking weak, including possibly firing artillery at U.S. military posts in South Korea.
Also, the Times said there's a possibility the North Korean dictator could resort to more drastic action, including even smuggling a nuclear weapon aboard a ship to a location where it could cause massive casualties.
He also could use an aircraft to drop the weapon.
"We are closer to a nuclear exchange than we have been at any time in the world's history with the single exception of the Cuban missile crisis,'' Stavridis told the Times.
The paper said a Korean war could start with something such as "a relatively minor incident at the demilitarized zone ... or a provocation that develops into a conventional war and then escalates."
Nonetheless, some believe tension in the past after such incidents didn't produce outright war.
"Things are certainly very tense," said Dean Cheng, a defense expert and senior research fellow at the Heritage Foundation, the Washington-based conservative think tank.
"The North Korea of right now is arguably seen as a real threat in a way that even in 2010 we didn't view it that way."
Experts say a lot of the North's military capabilities are ballistic missile-based weapons.
Besides nuclear weapons, the North also is believed to have a large stockpile of chemical weapons.
According to Williams, the North's ballistic missiles are "use or lose assets" so its leader Kim would have an impetus to go first, which "ultimately raises the risk of conflict and the chance of miscalculation.
It's hard to know what's going on in his mind, but that's my fear."
The recent expansion of the THAAD anti-missile system in South Korea could help reduce the threat of missiles, however, it probably won't help much in the greater Seoul area.
About 25 million people, or half of the country's population, lives in the greater Seoul area.
The exact range of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense system is believed to be up to 200 kilometers (124 miles), although THAAD was installed about 227 kilometers (or 135 miles) away in Seongju.
"South Korea has devoted a fair amount of effort to building shelters, conducting civil defense drills and things like that," Heritage's Cheng told CNBC.
He added that there's no reason to assume the North Koreans would not try to hit apartment buildings or other civilian targets.
The CSIS expert said there's also a risk the U.S. could push the North Korean regime leader "too hard and over the brink in terms of paranoia."
The North's propaganda has threatened in recent months to attack the U.S. homeland with nuclear-armed missiles.
The regime also has conducted at least two tests of intercontinental ballistic missiles, including one in July that experts said proved the North is capable of reaching half, if not most, of the continental United States, including major East Coast cities such as New York and Boston.
Even so, the threat to South Korea is especially alarming for Seoul residents since the city is close to the North Korean border.
The North is said to have thousands of underground locations where it stores rockets and other weapons as well as tunnels that could allow it to quickly enter South Korea.
"They've had pretty much since 1953 to burrow and dig and tunnel," said Cheng.
The Heritage expert described how the North Koreans have dug "hardened artillery sites" that are essentially bunkers with armored doors with a slip to stick artillery tubes through.
He said the regime has thousands of these along the Korean DMZ and within range of Seoul.
Nuclear weapons the North could use obviously bring added risks but even without them the loss of life could be significant.
A Pentagon war scenario estimated there would be about 20,000 casualties in South Korea each day in a conventional war, the Times report said, quoting Rob Givens, a retired U.S. Air Force brigadier general who was once stationed on the Korean peninsula.
"Too many people have the view that it would be like the invasion of Iraq or Afghanistan, or like combat operations in Libya or Syria, but it wouldn't be remotely that," Givens told the Times.
"There is only one way that this war ends," he added.
"With North Korea's defeat  but at what cost?"
Williams said the 20,000 deaths per day estimate seems a realistic estimate particularly for "the very beginning of the war, particularly if there wasn't much preparation or warning time."
Added Williams, "The scale of an artillery barrage [from the North] initially would be pretty massive.
You'd be looking at several thousand rockets and artillery pieces being fired over the course of several hours."
Experts add that the use of chemical or biological weapons by the North, though, could produce even heavier losses in South Korea.
By some estimates, the hermit regime has the world's third-largest chemical weapons stockpile  up to 5,000 metric tons of chemical agents.
Logan, the Pentagon official, declined to comment when CNBC asked about estimated casualties on the South Korean side.
The South is seen as particularly vulnerable to a saturation attack, using short-range Scud and other missiles targeting Seoul.
There's also the possibility of an attack using submarine-launched ballistic missiles, with a recent Japanese report indicating the North is close to completing a larger submarine capable of firing multiple missiles.
Read the full article in the Los Angeles Times.
Kroger is now making it a priority to partner with local brands at its supermarket stores across the U.S., right as Amazon-owned Whole Foods prepares to step back similar efforts.
Just last week, Kroger announced plans to roll out a website aimed at luring more local brands to its stores.
Currently, Kroger sources from thousands of local suppliers, but it's looking to grow that number, according to Mike Donnelly, Kroger's executive vice president of merchandising and procurement.
Kroger, which owns other supermarkets including Ralphs and Harris Teeter, is now inviting local vendors to join its team.
Kroger's new website reads: "Kroger Loves Local" and "We Are Local."
Food sampling and in-store education about local brands will continue to be a part of the Kroger shopping experience, a Kroger spokeswoman told CNBC.
The chain also wants to grow the dialogue around shopping and eating local.
Retail rival Whole Foods is meantime looking to follow a different strategy, simplifying operations and cutting back on some local initiatives.
Beginning next year, the organic supermarket chain will reportedly no longer allow brand representatives to promote their products, nor can they check stores to make sure items are stocked and displayed correctly, according to The Wall Street Journal.
It's long been the norm for local brands to set up tables throughout Whole Foods stores during peak selling hours, offering samples and educating shoppers on niche items.
It's served as a way for smaller brand names to market themselves, when they might not be noticed on a shelf at first glance.
"Whole Foods once found a way for local brands to have a great American story come to life ... [they] allowed brands to come into aisles, to tell their stories," Mike McDevitt, CEO of Baltimore-based meal-kit company Terra's Kitchen, told CNBC.
"While it's great to hear that the doors of Kroger are being open [to local brands] now, they're probably going to be cracked open, not wide open," McDevitt said.
Whole Foods, he said, was becoming too difficult to manage from a national, profit-driven perspective.
"All Whole Foods Market stores will continue to sell local products, and our buyers remain committed to discovering and incubating local and innovative brands," Whole Foods spokeswoman Brooke Buchanan told CNBC in a statement.
Whole Foods will also begin to centralize its decision-making regarding brands' product assortment, the Journal reported.
Instead of allowing brands to pitch their products on a local scale, for example, Whole Foods' top executives will choose a higher percentage of the inventory moving forward, the publication said, citing conversations between Whole Foods and third-party brand representatives during a series of recent closed-door meetings.
A Whole Foods spokeswoman had told the Journal that "having brand advocates in stores is distracting to employees and inefficient."
The new system, she told the publication, aims to cut costs and take a "national approach."
Time will tell if Whole Foods shoppers agree  or even notice  Amazon's push to nationalize the chain.
A study by location intelligence company Foursquare found a 25 percent increase in foot traffic at Whole Foods stores over the first two days, Aug. 28 and 29, that the company was owned by Amazon.
Since then, though, traffic has dropped off, Foursquare told CNBC in a follow-up study.
In its second week under Amazon's wings, from Sept. 4 to Sept. 10, traffic was only up about 8 percent when compared with an "average" week in August 2017.
To be sure, Kroger has taken a beating ever since the Amazon-Whole Foods deal was announced in mid-June.
Its stock is down more than 40 percent in 2017 alone.
Yet, Kroger isn't giving up without a fight, recently announcing new initiatives like its plans to open a "comfort food" restaurant, called Kitchen 1883, at a store near its corporate headquarters in Cincinnati.
Kroger is also growing its meal kits business, which it calls Prep+Pared.
The company has been adding the kits to additional Kroger stores this month.
Just last week, grocery chain Albertsons announced it would acquire meal kits business Plated, sending Blue Apron shares higher on speculation that there's hope for that sector after all.
"Kroger is making a wise move strategically in reaching out to local and emerging brands as the number of such brands are growing, and consumers are interested in having access to such brands," Brittain Ladd, a retail strategy, supply chain and logistics consultant, told CNBC.
"Kroger continues to prove they're the best grocery retailer in the United States, and they will continue to fight for their customers and brands," Ladd added.
"Amazon has no choice but to implement strategies that will increase operational efficiencies."
Its companies  especially the Frightful Five of Apple, Amazon, Google, Facebook and Microsoft, which employ a select and privileged few  look poised to systematically gut much of the rest of the economy.
And while Silicon Valleys technologies could vastly improve our lives, we are now learning that they may also destabilize great portions of the social fabric  letting outsiders wreak havoc on our elections, fostering distrust and conspiracy theories in the media, sowing ever-greater levels of inequality, and cementing a level of corporate control over culture and society unseen since the days of the Robber Barons.
People in tech have been discussing these issues since the 2016 presidential election, and they are now pushing many initiatives to broaden their industrys gains.
Just this week, many of the largest tech companies pledged $300 million for computer science education.
Still, Mr. Calacanis is offering a much more dismal view of the disruptions caused by tech  and a more radical, if also self-serving, plan for dealing with it.
To survive the coming earthquake, he advises, you need to radically re-examine your plan for the future  and you need to learn Silicon Valleys ways rather than expect to defeat it.
Photo

Most of you are screwed, he writes in Angel, arguing that a coming revolution in robotics and artificial intelligence will eliminate millions of jobs and destroy the old ways of getting ahead in America.
The world is becoming controlled by the few, powerful, and clever people who know how to create those robots, or how to design the software and the tablet on which youre reading this.
Mr. Calacanis is not wholly optimistic about where all this change will lead.
In my mind, candidly, weve got a 70 percent chance of figuring out this massive sea change without starting a full-on revolution in the streets, like we saw in Greece or Egypt, or any other place where unemployment among young adults breaks 20 percent, he writes in Angel.
Be warned: One reason that Mr. Calacanis is willing to diagnose this economic ill is that he is also selling a prescription that he claims will alleviate it.
His book is intended as a guide for getting into the business of investing in very young tech companies at their earliest stages, known as angel investing.
Mr. Calacanis is peddling a kind of populist movement for investing  he wants doctors, lawyers and other wealthy people, and even some in the middle class, to bet on start-ups, which he says is the best way to prepare financially for tech change.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I want to inspire 10,000 people to become full-time angel investors, he says.
Financial advisers I spoke to were not won over by Mr. Calacaniss advice.
They called his method indistinguishable from gambling, and they warned that the potential gains were not worth the risks.
Invest in start-ups with your fun money but not the money you are counting on for your future, advised Spencer Sherman, the founder of Abacus Wealth Partners.
Even other tech investors arent sold on Mr. Calacaniss movement.
Hunter Walk, a partner at the seed-stage fund Homebrew, said ordinary investors would be better off putting their money into public tech giants rather than gambling on small firms.
Unless youre willing to lose all your money, you shouldnt do that, Mr.
Walk said.
Mr. Calacanis genuinely believes that investing in start-ups is good advice; he has even offered his three children a chance to skip college and to use the tuition money on betting on start-ups.
His 7-year-old daughter, he said, is leaning toward taking the deal.
But like other recent populist movements, Mr. Calacaniss isnt without its apparent grifts.
Mr. Calacanis runs a syndicate, a kind of investing club in which people co-invest their money alongside his bets.
The book, he says, led to a surge in new investors on his syndicate  and if those investments pay off, Mr. Calacanis gets a 20 percent cut of his co-investors returns.
Not that hes shy about any of this.
Of course, I plan to make a great deal of money in these revolutions, he writes in Angel.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
You could call his attitude chutzpah, or you could call it hustle, which is a quality Mr. Calacanis has in spades.
He grew up in a working-class family in Brooklyn and writes that he spent much of his youth wondering, What would it be like to be rich?
He got his start in the 1990s as a reporter covering the budding internet industry in New York.
Later, he helped found Weblogs, one of the early digital media companies, which, in 2005, he sold to AOL for $30 million.
Along the way, he made dozens of connections  he casually name-drops every big name in tech  and now, as an angel, he parlays those connections into deal flow, getting early access to invest in the best start-ups.
In 2009, the venture capital firm Sequoia enlisted Mr. Calacanis as one of its scouts, an informal network of entrepreneurs who look for promising companies on the firms behalf.
As part of that program, Mr. Calacanis invested $25,000 on a friends crazy-sounding tech-enabled cab company.
The friend was Travis Kalanick; the company was Uber.
And despite that companys recent turmoil, the deal has turned into Mr. Calacaniss biggest win as an angel by far, worth about $100 million on paper.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

One charge against Mr. Calacaniss advice is that his wins arent widely replicable  not everyone can make a fortune off their friends billion-dollar ideas, after all.
But Mr. Calacanis isnt suggesting that people enter the angel business expecting to get rich quickly.
Look, Im going to wind up being the GOAT, he said, using internet-speak for Greatest Of All Time.
You dont read a book by Michael Jordan or LeBron James and expect to start playing basketball like Michael Jordan or LeBron James.
Instead, he outlines a careful and systematic approach for newcomers to the angel business.
He said people should start slowly, first as part of syndicates like his.
Those deals will help newbie investors get exposed to other investors and tech founders, which will bring them access to bigger and better deals.
He said repeatedly that this would take time and effort  people should be willing to spend 20 hours a week on their investments, and if they really want to hit it big, they should be willing to move to Silicon Valley.
And he is frank about the risks.
The book begins with an all-caps disclaimer warning, DONT READ THIS BOOK IF YOU CANT HANDLE LOSING YOUR MONEY INVESTING IN THE RISKIEST ASSET CLASS ON THE PLANET: START-UPS.
But to Mr. Calacanis, the risks are worth taking.
The world seems to have lost its moorings; its changing in ways that none of us can predict anymore.
So shouldnt you do something big?
As Mr. Calacanis argues: No gamble, no future.
The most important thing is better market access both for companies operating there physically and for companies exporting there, Mr. Ross said on Wednesday.
He added that the Trump administration wanted to see less protectionist behavior, calling China one of the most protectionist countries in the world.
Western businesses have raised concerns about a $300 billion plan by China to become self-sufficient by 2025 in high-tech industries, including computer chips and electric cars, that they argue may hurt foreign companies.
The policy, known as Made in China 2025, is part of Chinas ambition for certain industries to be global leaders with the help of state money.
We can understand that they would desire self-sufficiency and if the way they get there is through a free and open level playing field, and its a fair match, were fine with that, Mr. Ross said on Wednesday.
But, he added, the Trump administration would object to American companies being forced to transfer technological know-how in exchange for market access.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In closed-door conversations with United States officials, the Chinese have expressed concerns over a broad inquiry by the Trump administration into China trade practices that has focused on potential violations of intellectual policy.
Officials have also complained about the United States export controls.
On Wednesday, Mr. Ross blamed China for contributing to the United States trade deficit, saying it was by far our largest single deficit.
He said he planned to help narrow the gap between the two countries by increasing exports of American goods and services to China.
The Commerce Department is leading a trade mission to China in November as part of that initiative.
This year, the United States signed a deal with China to give American companies greater access to the Chinese market in several areas, including agriculture, banking and finance.
Mr. Ross referred to the deal as relatively low-hanging fruit.
Now were moving into harder things, bigger things, more serious things, and hopefully the good will thats been built up between President Xi and President Trump will help to change the atmosphere, Mr. Ross, referring to Xi Jinping, told an audience at a Forbes conference in Hong Kong on Tuesday evening.
But tensions remain between the two leaders.
Last week, Mr. Trump signed an executive order to strengthen sanctions against North Korea; the new measures named Chinese entities.
On Wednesday, Mr. Ross said that although the executive order did name some Chinese individuals, it was not particularly aimed at China, adding that other nations have also done business with North Korea.
He also praised Chinas central bank for directing its banking institutions not to facilitate trade with North Korea, saying it was an important step.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He also struck a cautious note in ending his meeting with reporters on Wednesday.
I dont want to give the impression that we made any concessions on the trip, he said.
We did not, nor did the Chinese side.
This week, Target said it would raise its minimum hourly wage to $11 next month and then to $15 an hour by the end of 2020.
On Tuesday, Ms. Yellen visited Cuyahoga Community College, which runs job-training programs to help workers gain skills and help employers find qualified workers.
Swagelok, an Ohio company that manufactures industrial parts, has started offering guaranteed internships to students who complete an eight-week training program at the college.
Christopher Koszewski, 55, enrolled after 17 years as a truck driver, eager for less dangerous work and higher pay.
You can go on Craigslist every day and see five to seven new want ads for skilled machinists, Mr. Koszewski said.
Its a target-rich environment.
The economic mystery is that inflation has remained low despite the tightening labor market.
The Fed has undershot its goal of 2 percent annual inflation in each of the past five years.
After getting close early this year, inflation has swooned again.
Low inflation is a concern because it keeps nominal interest rates at a relatively low level, Ms. Yellen said, limiting the Feds ability to respond to economic downturns.
Some Fed officials argue that it is also a sign the economy is weaker than it appears.
Charles Evans, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, said Monday in Grand Rapids, Mich., that the Fed should wait for stronger inflation before raising interest rates.
Referring to the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets Fed policy, Mr. Evans said, Inflation has been lower than the F.O.M.C.s 2 percent target for too long, and there is little in the recent data to suggest that inflation will soon rise to target.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He has warned that the Fed may be contributing to the problem by failing to convince the public through its actions that it is committed to raising inflation back to 2 percent.
That, however, remains a minority opinion among Fed policy makers.
Ms. Yellen and her closest allies have continued to describe low inflation as an aberration.
William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said on Monday in Syracuse  a city at the same latitude as Grand Rapids  that he expected inflation to rise in the coming months, and that he expected the Fed to keep raising interest rates.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Fed policy makers generally agree that a surplus of workers eases inflation, while a shortage of workers leads to higher inflation.
In her judgment, Ms. Yellen said, this is a Goldilocks moment  the labor market is neither too hot nor too cold.
I view the data we have in hand as suggesting a generally healthy labor market, not one in which substantial slack remains or one that is overheated, Ms. Yellen said.
She said the weakness of inflation in recent years reflected other factors, including idiosyncratic events like a price war among cellphone service providers.
This year, she said, the weakness is harder to explain.
I think my main message about what weve been seeing is that 2017, the shortfall in inflation is a mystery, she said.
Ms. Yellen explored three explanations for the weakness in her remarks.
Some economists argue that the low unemployment rate is a misleading measure of the health of the labor market because it does not account for the recent increase in the share of American adults who are neither working nor looking for work.
Some of those people are returning to work as the economy gains strength.
The high cost of child care kept Jessica Dicus out of the work force for the past 10 years, but she recently enrolled in the same training program as Mr. Koszewski.
She is paying $4,200; when she completes the program, she will make $15 an hour.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I never planned on being out of the labor force for so long, said Ms. Dicus, 37, who served in the Army before starting a family.
Now its time for me to get on with my life.
The Fed under Ms. Yellen has prolonged its stimulus program, but she said she saw clear evidence the labor market was strengthening.
For example, the percentage of firms planning wage increases has returned to its pre-recession level, she said.
Ms. Yellen gave more credence to the theory espoused by Mr. Evans: the possibility that Americans are losing confidence the Fed will return inflation to 2 percent, and that those diminished expectations in turn are reducing the pace of inflation.
Finally, she said that changes in the structure of the economy, such as slower growth in health care costs, might be suppressing inflation even as the labor market tightened.
These significant uncertainties about the likely pace of inflation weighed in favor of caution in raising rates, she said.
Moving too quickly risks overadjusting policy to head off projected developments that may not come to pass, she said.
The Feds concern about low inflation strikes some critics as misplaced.
I cant work up any enthusiasm for that issue, said Martin Feldstein, an economics professor at Harvard.
I cant see why anybody other than a professional economist or a journalist who covers these issues should care about whether inflation is 1.6 percent or 2 percent.
Mr. Feldstein said he shared in the general puzzlement that inflation was not rising more quickly, but he said the Feds sole concern was to keep it that way.
I was there when the inflation rate was 10 percent in the late 1970s, he said.
If somebody told me we would have zero inflation, I would say thats O.K.
Photo

FRANKFURT  Wolfgang Schuble, a dominant figure in German politics who was reviled in countries like Greece for his advocacy of austerity during the eurozone debt crisis, will leave his powerful post as finance minister to become speaker of the German Parliament, his party said on Wednesday.
While the move is ostensibly a promotion, the speakers job is in reality less powerful than the cabinet position Mr. Schuble has occupied since 2009, which gave him more influence than many European heads of government.
His departure was prompted by national elections on Sunday in which the Christian Democrats  his party, and that of Chancellor Angela Merkel  came in first but nonetheless lost ground.
Though a staunch advocate of European unity, Mr. Schuble was widely criticized, and even vilified, for insisting that Greece and other eurozone members make drastic cuts in public spending after markets lost confidence in their ability to pay their debts.
Many economists blamed the austerity policies for prolonging the economic agony that Greece continues to suffer.
As the president of the Bundestag, Mr. Schuble will ostensibly be Germanys second highest official, just behind the president, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, and ahead of the Ms. Merkel.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The new position was confirmed by Volker Kauder, chairman of the Christian Democrats parliamentary bloc.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mr. Schuble, 75, has been a fixture in German politics for more than 40 years, dating to the period when Helmut Kohl was chancellor and Germany was still divided between East and West.
It is a significant moment for the 11-year-old Twitter, which has been trying to figure out how to change the social media service without alienating the people who have embraced its short format.
The idea of extending the length of Twitter posts has been contentious internally, batted around among product groups that are trying to find ways to persuade people to use the service more frequently.
At 328 million users, Twitter has been criticized for its inability to attract more people.
Investors have grown nervous, as that slowing of user growth has affected the companys revenue.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Last year, Twitter tried extending its character count by allowing people to post photos and GIFs without counting them against the overall character limit.
It also toyed with longer posts exceeding 140 characters, until criticism from users prompted Jack Dorsey, Twitters chief executive, to proclaim that the limit was here to stay.
Twitter is now preparing for a backlash from those who might take issue with a 280-character tweet.
We understand since many of you have been tweeting for years, there may be an emotional attachment to 140 characters, the company said.
But we tried this, saw the power of what it will do, and fell in love with this new, still brief, constraint.
The negative reaction was swift, however.
Some on Twitter proclaimed it a terrible idea.
Still, Twitter pointed to people who post primarily in Japanese, Chinese and Korean, languages with alphabets that allow the expression of more thoughts in fewer characters.
Those users tend to bump up against the character limits less often, which Twitter said leads to more frequent messages.
As a result, Twitter said, if rules around characters are loosened, English-speaking users  who tend to use more characters in tweets  will also hit character limits less frequently.
That may, in turn, lead English-speaking users to post more regularly.
The test will begin in small groups around the world.
The company has not said whether it will roll the change out to all users in the future.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Twitter said the people who will get to test the 280-character tweets will be randomly selected.
Whether that may include prominent Twitter users like President Trump is unclear.
Mr. Trump has often used Twitter to announce policy decisions, which has sometimes led to heat on the service.
This week, there was a renewed call to bar Mr. Trump from using Twitter after Kim Jong-un, the leader of North Korea, said recent inflammatory tweets from Mr. Trump should be considered a declaration of war.
On Monday, Twitter issued a statement from its policy team saying that it took a number of factors into account when dealing with violations of the companys user agreement, including the newsworthiness of the tweet.
In the end, Tweets get right to the point with the information or thoughts that matter, the company said of the 280-character tweet test.
That is something we will never change.
Photo

SAN FRANCISCO  For Lyft, winning the race to create the first fully self-driving vehicles on the road is a far from lonely pursuit.
The companys ethos is the more partners, the merrier.
That approach explains the new tie-up between Lyft and Ford Motor.
On Wednesday, the companies said they had struck a partnership to develop and test autonomous vehicle designs and technology, with the aim of putting Fords self-driving vehicles on Lyfts ride-hailing network in the future.
As part of the agreement, the companies plan to focus on issues such as software design, customer experience and user interfaces.
Were focused on partnering with the auto industry because frankly, we think we cant do this alone and need each other to be successful, said Raj Kapoor, Lyfts chief strategy officer.
Its one thing to do tests with one or two cars.
Its a whole different world doing this on a large scale.
The partnership represents another shift on the rapidly changing landscape for self-driving cars, where traditional automakers like General Motors and Silicon Valley companies including Waymo and Uber are all jockeying for the lead.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Lyft has tried to position itself as an agnostic player in the autonomous vehicle industry with its Open Platform Initiative, under which it will cooperate with car manufacturers to test their self-driving cars and use their technology on its ride-hailing network.
The self-driving start-up nuTonomy and Land Rover, among others, have already joined.
Heres a taste of what Caroline and I experienced playing the Super NES Classic Edition.
Installing the System

The console is easy to set up: Just plug it into a TV via the included HDMI cable.
After that, I had a blast exploring the dungeons of Hyrule in The Legend of Zelda and tossing TNT barrels in Donkey Kong Country.
In fact, I played so long, a creeping ache lead to worries about the onset of the dreaded Nintendo thumb.
But as fun as the retro games are, Nintendo did little to update the gameplay for modern audiences.
The Super NES Classic has no internet connection, so there is no way to compete online with friends.
(The console does come with a pair of controllers, allowing for two-player mode at home.)
And in a time of wireless technology that allows controllers to be used in any spot in a room, the Super NES Classic controllers are wired and plug into the console, which limits a players mobility and leaves a mess of cables draped over the floor.
The cables are longer than those of the NES Classic, but they are still only about five feet long.
I had to place the console on a chair in the middle of the room to play from the comfort of my couch.
Another limitation: The Super NES Classic has no slot for game cartridges, so if you hung on to your old Super NES games in the hopes of using them again, you are out of luck.
They will not work on this system.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Nintendo does offer games from past consoles for download for the Wii U through its Virtual Console service and, starting Wednesday, arcade games for the Switch through its Arcade Archives service.
Standout Features

But the Super NES Classic does have a few new and nifty features.
One is called Rewind, which lets players back up a minute or so in a game to restart difficult challenges.
And each game has four suspend points, allowing players to save a game midlevel  unlike in the original system, which forced you to rush to finish a level because your mother was calling you to dinner.
A feature called Frame also allows players to pick a border around games to fit todays wider-screen TVs.
The console also offers three display choices: the original 4:3 aspect ratio of the games, a CRT filter that replicates the same blurry look of cathode-ray tube TVs, and a Pixel Perfect mode that makes the games look crisp and clean.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Carolines Experience

Its hard to imagine that todays youth would want to play 16-bit games on an outmoded system when they are accustomed to ergonomic controllers, powerful processors, surround-sound audio and high-definition screens.
And the simple, side-scrolling gameplay of the past is no match for the interactive worlds created by augmented and virtual reality games.
So the real draw of the Super NES Classic is nostalgia.
Thats a theory I tested with Caroline.
Over the hour we played with the console together, she was drawn to the characters she recognized (Mario, yes; Samus Aran of Super Metroid, not so much).
She wanted to play Super Mario World, which she loved once she learned how to make Mario ride Yoshi.
But for a child used to touch controls on mobile devices, other games were harder.
Maneuvering Luigi around the track in Super Mario Kart proved to be too difficult, and she put the controller down after the first race and switched back to Minecraft on her Kindle.
I couldnt see what I was doing, she said of the fast and furious racing game.
Minecraft is simpler.
Bottom Line

The target for the Super NES Classic Edition is adults who grew up with the original console, which is still a big audience.
Learning a lesson after many outraged fans who sought the NES Classic last year were left empty-handed, Nintendo said it would increase inventory of the Super NES Classic this year.
It also said that the NES Classic would return to retail shelves next year.
The games of the Super NES Classic still stand the test of time as some of Nintendos finest.
But they feel trapped in the amber of an outdated console.
Theyre really skating on thin ice, said Michael Bertini, a search strategist at iQuanti, a digital marketing agency.
Theyre controlling what users see.
If Google is controlling what they deem to be fake news, I think thats bias.
Despite Googles insistence that its search algorithm undergoes a rigorous testing process to ensure that its results do not reflect political, gender, racial or ethnic bias, there is growing political support for regulating Google and other tech giants like public utilities and forcing it to disclose how exactly its arrives at search results.
Most people have little understanding of how Googles search engine ranks different sites, what it chooses to include or exclude, and how it picks the top results among hundreds of billions of pages.
And Google tightly guards the mathematical equations behind it all  the rest of the world has to take their word that it is done in an unbiased manner.
The complexity of ranking and rating is always going to lead to some lack of understanding for people outside of the company, said Frank Pasquale, an information law professor at the University of Maryland.
The problem is that a lot of people arent willing to give them the benefit of the doubt.
In his book, The Black Box Society, Mr. Pasquale warned about the potential risks from an overreliance on secret algorithms that control what information we see and how critical decisions are made.
As the dominant search engine, with an estimated 90 percent global market share, Google was criticized by both the right and the left of the political world during the 2016 election.
In June 2016, a video from the pop culture site SourceFed accused Google of manipulating automatically completed search suggestions to favor Hillary Clinton.
Google denied the claim, but right-wing media seized on the video as an example that the company was tipping the scales in her favor.
In the days after the election, the top Google search results for final election vote count 2016 was a link to a story that wrongly stated that Mr. Trump, who won the Electoral College, had also defeated Mrs. Clinton in the popular vote.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In the research that led to the creation of Project Owl, Google found that a small fraction of its search results  about 0.25 percent of daily traffic  were linking to intentionally misleading, false or offensive information.
For a company that aims to deliver the most relevant information for all queries, that constituted a crisis.
Photo

Google said it had added more detailed examples of problematic pages into the guidelines used by human raters to determine what is a good search result and what is a bad one.
Google said its global staff of more than 10,000 raters do not determine search rankings, but their judgments help inform how the algorithm performs in the future.
Google has often said that it cannot reveal too much or people would use that information to try to game the rankings.
The opacity around Googles algorithm has given birth to a cottage industry of search engine optimization experts who dissect the companys comments.
To assuage criticism about that lack of transparency, Google made public its guidelines for search quality in 2013.
Pandu Nayak, a Google fellow who focuses on search quality, said disclosing the guidelines is more meaningful.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The actual algorithm is not as important as what the algorithm is trying to do, said Mr. Nayak.
Being completely transparent of what youre trying to achieve is the central goal because how you accomplish that can change.
Google said hundreds of factors go into its search algorithm and the formula is also constantly evolving.
The company said it conducted 150,000 search experiments and implemented 1,600 changes last year.
This is why its hard to pinpoint exactly why search traffic plummets for a site like the World Socialist Web Site, which calls itself the online newspaper of the international Trotskyist movement.
Mr. North, the sites chairman, said traffic coming in from search is down 70 percent since April, citing data from Alexa, a web traffic analytics firm owned by Amazon.com.
In an open letter to Google last month, Mr. North traced his sites traffic decline to Project Owl.
Mr. North said he believed that Google was blacklisting the site, using concerns over fake news as a cover to suppress opinions from socialist, antiwar or left-wing websites and block news that Google doesnt want covered.
In mid-April, a Google search for socialism vs. capitalism brought back one of the sites links on the first results page but, by August, that same search didnt feature any of its links.
The site said 145 of the top 150 search terms that had redirected people to the site in April are now devoid of its links.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

They should be asked to explain how theyre doing it, Mr. North said.
If they say were not doing anything, thats simply not credible.
Mr. North said that Google has not responded to his claims.
Google declined to comment on the World Socialist Web Site.
Mr. North argued the drop-off in traffic is the result of Google directing users toward mainstream media organizations, including The New York Times.
The World Socialist Web Site claimed that search referral traffic had fallen since April at a variety of other left-wing, progressive, socialist or antiwar publications like AlterNet and Consortiumnews.
The New York Times could not find the same level of traffic declines at all of those publications, based on data from SimilarWeb, a web analytics firm.
Traffic coming from search engines for the World Socialist Web Site was down 34 percent during the months of May to July, compared with the preceding three months, according to SimilarWeb.
Traffic that did not come from search was up 1 percent during the same period.
Mr. North said his site provides critical analysis for current events and it has nothing in common with sites peddling blatantly untrue stories.
But he said he is opposed to any actions taken by Google under the pretext of stopping fake news.
Im against censorship in any form, he said.
Its up to people what they want to read.
Its not going to stop with the World Socialist Web Site.
Its going to expand and spread.
Mr. Nadella, who joined Microsoft in 1992, touched on a range of topics during the talk in Manhattan, discussing privacy, gaming, immigration and the effect of artificial intelligence on jobs.
Mr. Nadella said that immigrants  and not just those with highly valued skills  help improve competition.
He said he himself had benefited from enlightened immigration policy that allowed him to study and work in the United States.
Thats what makes America exceptional, both being the place where the talent comes and also being the beacon of hope for the people who need hope, said Mr. Nadella, who early in his employment at Microsoft had given up his green card for a temporary H-1B work visa that allowed him to bring his wife, Anu, to the United States from India.
Like many tech companies, Microsoft has voiced opposition to President Trumps decision to begin rolling back the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals immigration policy.
Microsoft said it would cover the legal costs for any worker threatened with deportation.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mr. Nadella also addressed a series of business flops  including a disastrous acquisition of the phone maker Nokia and Microsofts late start in development of cloud computing services  that pushed it out of the top tier of white-hot tech companies like Facebook, Apple and Google.
But recently, Microsoft has regained traction, making some of the most innovative personal computers in the industry, experimenting with artificial intelligence and augmented reality and testing autonomous vehicles.
Microsofts share price has more than doubled during Mr. Nadellas tenure as chief executive.
But there is still room to grow.
Revenue from Microsofts Azure cloud service soared 97 percent in its fourth quarter, but the business still lags behind the offering of its nearby rival, Amazon.
Mr. Nadella said that companies cannot expect to hit every trend or catch every wave, noting that Microsoft faced a new existential threat every five years throughout its history.
He said that while zero sum competition exists in the industry, he also values partnerships.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Amazon and Microsoft, based a short drive apart in Washington State, compete for both talent and business.
But the two companies recently paired up to integrate Amazons Alexa voice-controlled digital assistant with its Microsoft counterpart Cortana.
I do not view it primarily through a competitive lens  technology today is much more pervasive, and the top five companies by market cap are all very different, he said.
The worst mistake I can make is to assume that we should do what theyre doing and not be true to our identity.
Mr. Nadella is promoting his new autobiography, Hit Refresh, which went on sale on Tuesday.
They promise the dream of making a fortune, said Liu Libing, a former victim who runs a business helping families find missing relatives.
In reality, they brainwash you and hold you against your will.
The government announced a nationwide crackdown on the schemes in August after the death of Li Wenxing, 23, a recent college graduate whose body was found in a pond in the northern city of Tianjin.
Mr. Li had moved to Tianjin for a position as a software developer, desperate for a job his parents in rural China would deem worthy of the education they helped pay for.
But when he showed up for work, the people there demanded he borrow hundreds of dollars and hand it over, according to his family and the police.
Mr. Lis death and a spate of similar cases have prompted a national uproar, in part because college graduates have long enjoyed special status in Chinese society.
For many Chinese, the groups preying on them are a symptom of broader problems in the country: vast inequality, a crisis of values and a freewheeling economy that can sometimes resemble the Wild West.
Photo

The party has long worried about the destabilizing impact of pyramid schemes, which have thrived in China since it began loosening controls on the economy in the 1980s.
For many years, the authorities even banned multilevel marketing tactics, likening companies such as Amway and Avon to secret societies, before lifting the prohibition in 2006.
But the government recently warned that pyramid schemes were spreading faster and getting bigger, in part through social media.
The high returns they promise are all the more enticing as economic growth has slowed, especially given the dearth of reliable investment options for ordinary Chinese.
A key concern has been the unflinching loyalty that some groups inspire, threatening the partys tight grip on society.
A recent mass protest in Beijing reinforced such fears: The demonstrators were not demanding compensation or an investigation into a pyramid scheme but protesting the arrest of its founder.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The state-run Legal Weekly newspaper later reported that in the span of a year, more than five million people had enrolled in that scheme, Shanxinhui, or Kindness Exchange, which had presented itself as a sort of charitable enterprise.
While pyramid swindlers in China have traditionally focused on older people, the business cults exploit highly educated youth from poorer families, law enforcement officials say.
In doing so, they are seizing on the anxieties of a generation willing to go to great lengths to avoid the shame of unemployment.
After expanding access to higher education, China now suffers a glut of college graduates and a scarcity of high-paying jobs.
While a college degree was once a ticket into the middle class, many recent graduates are now stuck in low-paying positions or have given up looking for work.
Hundreds of young people across China have been caught in the schemes in recent months, according to Chinese news reports, including many in Tianjin, a cosmopolitan port city and tech hub near Beijing.
The groups have grown skilled at playing into the ambitions of young Chinese eager to join start-ups.
Victims are often lured to remote rural areas, where they live in closed communities and are indoctrinated with rags-to-riches tales.
Some groups advertise on popular job-hunting sites and explain drab facilities and cramped conditions by saying they are cultivating a start-up environment, former members said.
Several participants have died under mysterious circumstances.
Zhang Chao, 25, suffered heatstroke and died while being held by swindlers in Tianjin in July, the police said.
His body was dumped alongside a road.
Photo

Lin Huarong, 20, who had fought with organizers of a pyramid scheme, was found dead in a river last month in the central province of Hubei.
Qu Pengxu, 24, was discovered floating in a lake in March.
The police said he appeared to have been fleeing a group near Tianjin.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Many young people join and stay in the groups voluntarily, excited by promises of fancy cars, overseas travel and lavish meetings where money is handed out in dramatic fashion.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
China Youth Daily, a state-run newspaper, recently reported on hordes of young people with dreams of a gold rush flocking to a hot spot of pyramid schemes near Beijing.
Leaders of one scheme told participants they could turn an investment of $7,500 into nearly $700,000.
In reality, law enforcement officials say, many of the investment schemes are sophisticated ruses with the sole purpose of enriching the founders.
Liu Jinpeng, 22, a student in the southern province of Guangdong, said he was excited when his girlfriend got him a summer internship at her company, which she described as a biotechnology firm.
But he realized something was wrong when he arrived for work in early July.
She suddenly told him the company actually specialized in cosmetics.
The company then took his phone and asked him to pay a membership fee of more than $400.
Mr. Liu said the group assigned someone to guard him round the clock for nearly three weeks and packed his schedule with activities to brainwash him.
Every single day your mind wouldnt have time to rest, he said in a telephone interview.
They dont give you any alone time.
Photo

He tried throwing a note out a window with the words Save me.
Eventually, he managed to retrieve his phone and get a message to the police, who rescued him but did not make any arrests, he said.
To win the trust of new members, the groups often deploy loved ones and trusted friends to offer testimonials.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Li Zhengliang, a college student in eastern China, said he gladly accepted when a high school friend invited him last year to visit Tianjin.
But his friend then introduced him to young men who spoke about making millions of dollars by tricking people into investing in a mysterious product.
When he tried to leave, the men blocked his way and threatened him with a knife.
I was so desperate and so scared, he said in a telephone interview.
I thought I was doomed.
Mr. Li escaped three days later and reported the group to the police in Tianjin, he said, but they dropped the case after only chastising the young men.
Li Wenxing, the young man found dead in a pond, was duped by a posting for an $800-a-month position as a Java programmer at the Tianjin branch of a real Beijing technology company.
Mr. Li had hoped the job would allow him to repay his parents for the money they spent on his programming classes, according to a friend, Wang Xing.
He was so determined to save money, Mr. Wang said, that he skipped going out to meals.
The police have detained five members of a 7,000-person group known as Diebeilei in connection with Mr. Lis death, according to the state news media.
The authorities have said it was unlikely Mr. Li was murdered, but they have not determined how he died, according to an uncle of his who asked not to be named.
Friends and relatives of Mr. Li said the government considered the case politically sensitive.
In his final phone call home in July, the uncle said, Mr. Li told his parents not to give money to strangers.
The Commerce Department announcement, which centered on Boeings claim that the Canadian jet maker had received unfair government subsidies for its products, was the first in a series of rulings on the duties that are to be charged to Bombardiers products, rulings that could be reversed in months to come.
The next decision, on Oct. 5, will consider whether Bombardier sold its jets in the United States at an unfairly low price, a practice known as dumping.
That could add an additional duty to imports of the jet.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The United States International Trade Commission, a federal agency that monitors trade, will make a final ruling on the case early next year that could uphold or eliminate the duties.
Yet federal customs officials are authorized to begin collecting the duties on Bombardier planes immediately.
While the new jet has not yet been imported into the United States, the measure could damp future sales.
Boeing greeted the news in a statement: This dispute has nothing to do with limiting innovation or competition, which we welcome.
Rather, it has everything to do with maintaining a level playing field.
The ruling was handed down as negotiators from Canada, the United States and Mexico met in Ottawa to negotiate reforms to Nafta, a sprawling trade pact that has guided the North American economy since 1994.
In Canada, where trade supports much of the economy, and news of Nafta is splashed across newspapers and television channels, the talks are being viewed as a test of whether the government will stand up to President Trumps aggressive stance on trade.
In response to duties on Bombardier, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has threatened to abandon a planned purchase by Canada of military aircraft from Boeing.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We wont do business with a company thats busy trying to sue us and put our aerospace workers out of business, Mr. Trudeau said on Sept. 18 in a joint news conference with Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain.
Ms. May also criticized the Boeing case, arguing that it would cost jobs in Northern Ireland, where the wings for Bombardiers CSeries jet are built.
Jerry Dias, president of the Canadian labor union Unifor, said Tuesday that there was no question that President Trumps election to office had ratcheted up trade tensions between the United States and Canada.
At some point or another, Canada is going to have to strike back in a very aggressive way.
Just continuing to take it on the chin doesnt make any sense, he told reporters on the sidelines of the Nafta negotiations.
The AMC deal, which brings total investment in Dreamscape to more than $40 million, calls for up to six Dreamscape locations to open over the next 18 months.
Some will be inside existing AMC theaters, and some will be stand-alone centers nearby.
Additionally, Dreamscape will open a flagship location in the first quarter of next year at the Westfield Century City mall in Los Angeles.
Westfield is another Dreamscape investor.
Photo

In many cases, we have surplus space, and we think Dreamscape will add energy and excitement to our theaters, especially during the week, Mr. Aron said.
But this isnt a replacement for movies.
Its a complement.
Tickets are expected to cost from $15 to $20.
Dreamscape joins a cluster of companies that are trying to take advantage of the still-untapped consumer promise of virtual-reality technology, the desperate need by shopping malls to reinvent themselves in the online retail age and the pressure on movie studios (and theater companies) to find new avenues of growth.
The Void, a Utah start-up, recently announced a partnership with the Walt Disney Company to open Star Wars-themed virtual-reality experiences at Disney malls outside theme parks in California and Florida.
Already operating are two Imax V.R.
Centres in Los Angeles and New York; tickets start at $7, and the Los Angeles location has attracted 50,000 people over the last nine months.
Imax said it planned to expand the concept to Canada, Britain and Shanghai this fall.
The Hollywood players behind Dreamscape give it immediate cachet.
Joining Mr. Spielberg are people like Hans Zimmer, the movie music composer, and the director Gore Verbinski.
But their involvement does not guarantee success.
Mr. Spielberg, for one, has been down this road before, with mixed results.
In the late 1990s, his DreamWorks SKG invested alongside Universal Pictures in a heavily promoted venture called GameWorks, which was supposed to use new technology to revolutionize the arcade business.
GameWorks never lived up to its billing.
Around the same time, Disney encountered similar disappointment with DisneyQuest, which was envisioned as a worldwide chain offering virtual-reality experiences.
Only two were built.
Two members of the Dreamscape management team, Walter Parkes, a co-chairman, and Bruce Vaughn, the chief executive, are very familiar with those efforts.
Mr. Parkes, a movie producer whose credits include the Men in Black series, worked for Mr. Spielberg as a senior DreamWorks executive at the time.
Mr. Vaughn spent 23 years at Disney, most recently serving as chief creative officer of its Imagineering research and design unit.
Photo

Even big-name brands can have a hard time getting people to go here instead of there, Mr. Vaughn acknowledged.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Vaughn was sitting in the Dreamscape warehouse last week with Mr. Parkes and Kevin Wall, an Emmy-winning producer of world-spanning music events like Live 8 and another Dreamscape co-chairman.
The men, together with Aaron Grosky, the chief operating officer, said Dreamscapes fate would be different, partly because virtual-reality technology has advanced so significantly.
This is truly the birth of a new storytelling medium, Mr. Parkes said.
As if to prove it, Mr. Parkes took a reporter through a prototype Dreamscape experience.
The company uses more than a dozen cameras and sensors to transport people into various settings  home plate in a sold-out baseball stadium, the spider-filled ruins of an ancient temple or a futuristic, neon-lit city flooded with water.
You put on V.R.
goggles and a pair of gloves.
An attendant clips a small device to your shoes.
And off you go.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Inside Dreamscape experiences, which will last about nine minutes and cost about $1.5 million to $2 million to produce, participants can handle objects and  as avatars  even pass them between one another.
A shared experience is what makes the lasting emotional impact, said Mr. Vaughn, noting his track record in creating Disney theme park attractions.
Dreamscape is developing original content.
Mr. Parkes said the company was also negotiating with various studios and filmmakers to create experiences that put people inside movie franchises.
If you enjoy our experience, youll be more likely to see the movie, and vice versa, he said.
But over the last decade, after the citys politics had stabilized, companies started to come back.
New start-ups have popped up, for example, particularly in the fields of technology, artificial intelligence and gaming.
Facebook just announced it is creating an artificial intelligence research lab in Montreal, and last fall Google said that it would open a similar facility there.
The stable political environment in Montreal these last years, especially when we take into consideration the more unstable global environment created by Brexit and other elections in Europe, has made Montreal more attractive to business and leisure visitors, said Denis Coderre, Montreals mayor.
The increase in businesses has helped spur the development of new office space, luxury hotels and related amenities for visitors.
New restaurants are popping up, including Vladimir Poutine, which opened down the road from the new Four Seasons project in early 2017.
The restaurant sells high-end versions of Montreals famous snack food: fries covered in gravy and cheese curds.
Another popular spot for business and leisure visitors is Bota Bota, a floating spa with views of old Montreal on a former ferryboat that used to travel the Saint Lawrence River.
Photo

The Montreal economy is booming, Mr. Coderre said.
He added that the unemployment rate had reached one of its lowest levels since 2010, the labor force was growing and investments were increasing.
New taxes on foreign investors in Toronto and Vancouver also appear to have played a part.
But the city also has something else appealing to business, according to J. Allen Smith, the Four Seasons chief executive: cultural sophistication, European influences and storied history.
Partnering with Carbonleo Real Estate, a Quebec developer and property manager, the Four Seasons project will include a 166-room hotel and 18 condos priced from nearly $3 million to over $12 million.
The hotel will be connected to the flagship location for Ogilvy, a high-end department store that is undergoing more than $100 million in renovations and merging with Holt Renfrew, another luxury retailer.
Near the new Four Seasons, the Fairmont Queen Elizabeth Hotel just reopened its doors this July after a $114 million renovation.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Ritz Carlton blazed the path for high-end hoteliers in Montreal.
The hotel, which first opened in 1912, reopened in 2013 after renovations that cost about $200 million.
Those changes added 45 condos, larger hotel guest rooms and now features Maison Boulud, the first Montreal restaurant of acclaimed French chef Daniel Boulud.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
A surge of visitors to Montreal has helped supercharge the hotel boom.
Montreal is on track to hit 11.2 million tourists by the end of 2017, up 20 percent from 2013, according to the Conference Board of Canada and Tourisme Montreal.
This summer, as the city celebrated its 375th anniversary, Montreal had the most visitors it has ever had since it began keeping count.
Visitors flock to Montreal for business, bachelor and bachelorette parties, as well as music festivals and sports events such as the Montreal International Jazz Festival and the Formula One Canadian Grand Prix car race.
With four major universities, Montreal also attracts many students and educators.
The Golden Square Mile, where the new Four Seasons will sit, is at the foot of the hilly Mont Royal park, designed by Frederick Law Olmsted about 16 years after he helped create Central Park in New York.
Between 1850 and 1930, some of North Americas wealthiest families built mansions, as well as churches and universities in the Golden Square Mile.
Now boutiques, restaurants, theaters, cinemas, art galleries and book stores populate the area.
Photo

The developers of the new Four Seasons in Montreal, which is set to open next year, expect the shopping to be a big draw.
While many high-end hotels feature luxury boutiques on their street level, the Four Seasons will be connected directly to the 250,000 square foot-luxury Ogilvy/Holt Renfrew department store.
The Four Seasons will be a monochromatic 18-story building with tinted windows creating a reflective charcoal facade broken up by a golden thread that emphasizes the shift between volumes and outlines its main entrances, said Eric Pelletier, an architect and design principal at the firm designing the project.
The gold inlay also highlights the 6,000-square-foot ballroom that will seat 500 guests.
Four Seasons brought in Parisian-based architects Gilles and Boissier to design the hotel rooms, which are a balance of New World and Old World, said Dana Kalczak, vice president of interior design for Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts.
In contemporary shades of white, cream, rose and gold, the rooms maximize natural light, including bathrooms with windows that allow light to pass in from the room outside.
Old world touches include a built-in cocktail cabinet featuring all the equipment for shaking up a great cocktail or pouring a super scotch, said Ms. Kalczak.
The building will include condos, which went on sale this June and range from 2,886 to 6,910 square feet.
The largest penthouse includes a home gym and 2,060-square foot terrace with a fire pit and the option of a pool.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It remains to be seen whether the timing is good.
This year the overall condo market is a lot healthier than it was, says Hlne Bgin, a senior economist at Desjardins Economics.
But she noted that a surplus of high-end condos remain on the market.
The most interest in purchasing Four Seasons residences has come from affluent empty nesters from Montreal and further afield, people looking to swap out large family homes for new homes that dont represent a downgrade in lifestyle, said Jose Legault, a marketing director for Carbonleo Real Estate.
While Ms. Szczygiel and her husband have been upbeat about how the various new developments, along with Montreals many festivals and events, have made the city more dynamic and increased tourism, she acknowledged there is a downside.
We are unfortunately in for a lot of construction, she said.
But hopefully it will lead to long term benefits for business owners.
NEW YORK  U.S. stock indexes are slightly higher Wednesday as banks rise along with bond yields, but utilities and other big-dividend stocks tumble.
Smaller companies are climbing as investors review tax cuts proposed by President Donald Trump and congressional Republicans, and technology companies continue to recover some of their recent losses.
Athletic gear giant Nike is falling as investors are concerned about its U.S. business.
KEEPING SCORE: The Standard & Poor's 500 index added 2 points, or 0.1 percent, to 2,499 as of 10:50 a.m. Eastern time.
The Dow Jones industrial average was unchanged at 22,283.
The Nasdaq composite advanced 35 points, or 0.6 percent, to 6,415.
The Russell 2000 index, which is made up of smaller-company stocks, continued to set records as it gained 6 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,463.
FED FOCUS: Investors bet that interest rates will keep rising.
Tuesday afternoon, Fed Chair Janet Yellen said the central bank will be careful not to raise interest rates too slowly even though inflation has long been weaker than the Fed expects.
Investors currently think the Fed will raise rates again in December, and Yellen and other policymakers say they plan to raise rates several more times in 2018.
The yield on the 2-year Treasury note rose to 1.47 percent from 1.45 percent.
The yield on the 10-year note climbed to 2.30 percent from 2.24 percent.
That helped banks, as higher interest rates mean they can charge more to lend money.
Bank of America picked up 56 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $25.38 and Citigroup rose $1.41, or 2 percent, to $72.35.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Companies that pay big dividends, including real estate investment trusts and utility companies, took steep losses.
Rising bond yields made government bonds a more appealing investment to investors seeking income.
The framework also gives Congress the option of creating a higher, fourth, rate above 35 percent to ensure that the rich are paying their fair share.
But it does not specify what income levels would be associated with the higher rate, what that new rate might be or explicitly direct Congress to implement a fourth bracket.
The plan aims to simplify and cut taxes for the middle class by doubling the standard deduction to $12,000 for individuals and to $24,000 for married couples.
That would allow people to avoid a complicated process of itemizing their taxes to claim various credits and deductions.
It would also increase the child tax credit from $1,000 to an unspecified amount and create a new $500 tax credit for dependents, such as the elderly, who are not children.
Provisions such as the alternative minimum tax and the estate tax, a tax on inherited wealth which Mr. Trump has derided over the years, would be gone under the Republican proposal.
Most itemized deductions, including those widely used for state and local tax expenses, would also be eliminated.
However, the plan would preserve the deductions for mortgage interest expenses and charitable giving and keep incentives for education and retirement savings plans.
The changes to taxation for companies would be equally dramatic.
The proposal calls for reducing the corporate tax rate to 20 percent from 35 percent, a shift that is intended to make American companies more competitive with their counterparts around the world.
A new tax rate would be created for so-called pass-through businesses.
These businesses, partnerships and sole proprietorships whose profits pass through to their owners, would be taxed at a rate of 25 percent, not the individual rate of their owners, like under the current law.
About 95 percent of businesses in the United States are structured as pass-throughs and they generate a majority of the governments corporate tax revenue.
As with the individual side, some of the thornier business tax issues remain unaddressed.
It will be left to Congress to create safeguards that prevent wealthy individuals from incorporating as pass-through businesses, which would tax their income at a lower rate.
Another administration official insisted that measures would be put in place so that there are not games played in this regard.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Another big change for companies would be a limitation of the deductibility for corporate interest expenses in exchange for the opportunity to immediately expense business investments.
The ability to write these expenses off immediately would last only five years, and the limitations for deducting interest have yet to be determined.
This is expected to set off a fight among business groups, many seeking either full deductibility or permanent immediate expensing.
The plan also calls on the tax committees to eliminate most of the tax credits that businesses currently use.
Among those that would remain are the prized tax credit for research and development and the low-income-housing credit, which many Democrats support.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Perhaps the most major yet murky shift on the business side is the move from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system.
In theory this means that companies would not be taxed on their overseas earnings, but to prevent erosion of the tax base, Republicans plan to impose some form of tax on foreign profits at a rate that has yet to be determined.
The transition to the new system would also include a one-time repatriation tax to encourage companies to bring offshore profits back to the United States.
There would be different repatriation rates for different types of assets, but as with many parts of the proposal, the rates would be up to Congress to decide.
Members of the Senate Budget Committee have agreed on a budget resolution that would allow for a $1.5 trillion tax cut over 10 years.
Studies of similar plans produced by Mr. Trump and House Republicans have been projected to cost $3 trillion to $7 trillion over a decade.
The Republicans pitching the plan say economic growth will compensate for lost revenue.
During the campaign, Mr. Trump said overhauling the tax code would raise economic growth to 4 percent.
She has three children: Elon, a founder of PayPal and Tesla; Tosca, a filmmaker; and Kimbal, a founder of The Kitchen Community, a nonprofit that builds gardens in schools.
Below, she discusses her modeling trajectory, her decision to stop dyeing her hair, nutrition and eating disorders in the industry, and her family.
How did you feel when you found out you would be CoverGirls newest ambassador?
I just love that CoverGirl wants to do diversity.
They havent had a model this old in their campaigns.
Im turning 70 in April of next year.
I think that women will be really inspired to see that even at 69 you can get a beauty campaign.
Aging has been good for me.
You develop confidence, youre able to handle the knocks a little easier.
I model for my age.
Im not trying to hide it and say Im 50.
Im so proud that Im going be 70.
I dont dye my hair.
Its so fabulous.
I had brown hair for so long.
I was always getting my roots done.
Sometimes I did it myself because I couldnt afford to go to a hair salon.
When I turned 60, I decided to see what color I am underneath.
I started dyeing my hair a very light blond and then I let it grow out.
I cut it very short.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And what happened?
Suddenly I have all these editorials and bookings, and everybody is loving it.
Photo

When did you first start modeling?
At 15.
I was a science nerd.
I have two science degrees.
I enjoyed the sciences, nutrition, so I always modeled part time, thinking it would end.
And it hasnt, of course.
Just getting started is my hashtag.
I had three kids in three years, so that slowed me down somewhat.
I was 28 and the oldest model in the city.
What advice would you give to young models today?
Be nice to everybody.
Keep your brain active.
Read a lot.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Did you ever involve your kids in your modeling work?
When I didnt have a nanny, the shows werent long, so they would have their books and sit in the front row.
I tried to get them to model, but they found it boring.
They didnt have iPads back then.
When youre on set you stand a lot and you wait, wait, wait.
Tosca was doing runway with me and she was about 11, and they did her hair in a style she hated and she refused to step on the runway.
And I said, Thats the end of your modeling career.
And that was fine with me, too.
What do you love about makeup?
For me, it makes a huge difference because my face is pretty plain, and Im very fair with very few eyebrows and very short eyelashes.
Makeup transforms me.
I feel like Im in disguise when I walk my dog without makeup on.
I was 12 or 13 when I started experimenting.
At 15, I was modeling.
I had to do my own hair and makeup.
I also made my own clothes because I grew up in South Africa, where fashion was six months behind because of the seasons.
We wore a lot of makeup.
It took us an hour to get ready.
The eyelashes on top, the black eyeliner in the crease of the eye that you can see in photos from the 60s, the beehive hairstyle.
The modeling industry has a lot of issues with eating disorders and underweight workers.
Whats your perspective on that as someone who studies nutrition?
There are models who are naturally skinny, but the thing is that many of them are emaciated.
You can tell because they have hirsutism.
Therell be some hair on their face.
Its to protect their body and keep it warm because theyre too skinny.
They also dont have good energy.
Im surprised how many of them can do so many shows.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Modeling agencies would send me their models.
If they were a swimsuit model, they would have to lose 10 pounds to do runway.
I would say, Youre perfect.
You dont need to lose weight.
They would say, But I have to lose 10 pounds to do couturier work.
I would say, You have to eat perfectly.
You have to keep your energy, and you cant look gaunt or tired.
You cant share pizza with your friends, you cant have alcohol, you cant have dessert.
Thats hard for young girls.
Both the House and the Senate need to approve the budget for the 2018 fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1.
Republicans will try to use the reconciliation maneuver to pass the tax bill with 50 votes, without Democratic support.
Related Reading

 MetLifes chief executive, Steven A. Kandarian, has a surprising op-ed in The Wall Street Journal on why large companies should stop using tax loopholes:

The lobbyists hired to protect such preferences always predict doom if they are stripped away.
But if our businesses cannot survive without tax subsidies, we should ask ourselves how much value we are truly creating for customers and shareholders.
Equifax C.E.O.
Steps Down

Richard F. Smith, who had led the company since 2005, could still be fired, despite agreeing on Wednesday to retire.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the DealBook Newsletter Every weekday, twice a day, get the news driving the markets and the latest on mergers and acquisitions.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The Timess Ron Lieber and Stacy Cowley:

The board said it could retroactively classify Mr. Smith as having been fired for cause.
If that were to happen, Mr. Smith would probably be required to forgo or repay certain compensation.
He is set to collect some $18.4 million in pension benefits, according to CNBC.
Replacing him:

 As chief executive: Paulino do Rego Barros Jr., head of Equifaxs Asia-Pacific unit, on an interim basis.
Bloomberg has a profile of the gadget-loving executive.
As chairman: Mark Feidler, a current board member.
Those replacements may not be enough to quell criticism of the company.
Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, according to The Times:

It is not real accountability if the guy promoted to chairman is an Equifax board member who served on the committee that was responsible for overseeing data security.
Related Reading

The Journal: Equifaxs security weaknesses were apparent months before the hacking, according to cybersecurity consultants.
Microsoft C.E.O.
on Gender Equality and Immigration

Satya Nadella spoke to Rebecca Blumenstein, a deputy managing editor at The Times, as he promotes his new autobiography, Hit Refresh.
Here are some of the highlights, from The Timess Tiffany Hsu:

Gender Equality

Mr. Nadella said that there had been progress, but that there was still significant distance to cover.
He added, We always had equal pay for equal work, but its more about equal opportunity for equal work.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Immigration

I dont want us to be only talking about high-skilled immigration.
Theres one other quality the United States has, which is a real currency in the world, and thats being a bastion of hope for all the people who need it most.
Both of those need to be reserved in any immigration policy that we come up with.
Related Reading

 The Journal: Bill Gatess top career advice is to build more empathy.
Digital Currency Speed-Read

 Mike Novogratz was once a top executive at Fortress Investment Group.
Now hes planning a hedge fund to focus on Bitcoin and other digital currencies, according to Bloombergs Erik Schatzker.
But his play is purely a bet on momentum:

This is going to be the largest bubble of our lifetimes, Novogratz said.
Prices are going to get way ahead of where they should be.
You can make a whole lot of money on the way up, and we plan on it.
Bloomberg: The prices of Bitcoin and copper are nearly moving in lock step.
The social network Kik has raised nearly $100 million from an initial coin offering of its currency, called Kin.
That appears to make it the seventh-biggest I.C.O.
to date, and one of the largest by an existing company, according to Token Data.
Twitter Thinks Bigger

As in, doubling the character limit of tweets, to 280.
Twitters co-founder and chief executive, Jack Dorsey, posted a supersize tweet to explain:

Behind the move, according to The Timess Mike Isaac: The hope that removing the notoriously short 140-character limit will help the company increase its stagnant user base.
He added (on Twitter, of course):

Naturally, some prominent Twitter users were incredulous about the forthcoming change.
Around the same time the president was deleting tweets about Mr.
Strange, he also deleted a tweet congratulating Mr. Moore on his victory.
He later reposted that message, and early Wednesday he tweeted about speaking with Mr. Moore by telephone.
It is unclear why the president chose to delete the tweets he did.
Several tweets endorsing Mr.
Strange, whom the president often called Big Luther, but which were sent in the weeks before Mr. Trumps visit to Alabama, remain public.
At a rally for Mr.
Strange in Alabama on Friday, Mr. Trump openly wondered whether it was a mistake to campaign for the senator, given his flagging poll numbers.
Even after getting elected president, Mr. Trump has maintained personal control of his Twitter account.
He has used his posts to skewer opponents, respond to critics and, he says, to communicate directly to voters without the filter of the news media.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Twitter is a wonderful thing for me, because I get the word out, he said in a March interview with Fox News.
I might not be here talking to you right now as president if I didnt have an honest way of getting the word out.
But if the presidents tweets are the Digital Age version of quips at the Rose Garden podium, what then are we to make of the deletions?
The president regularly deletes tweets with typos and misspellings.
Less frequently, but not unheard-of, are erasures that pertain to more significant topics.
In March, he posted and deleted a tweet that read: Meeting with Generals at Mar-a-Lago in Florida.
Very interesting!
At least two government watchdog groups, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington and the National Security Archive, believe that when Mr. Trump deletes a tweet he may be breaking the law.
The groups filed a lawsuit in June against Mr. Trump and the Executive Office of the President, claiming that deleting social media posts violates the Presidential Records Act, a law that requires presidential communications to be archived.
The groups are also suing to require White House staff members to archive material sent through encrypted messaging apps, such as WhatsApp and Signal.
She initially lauded automakers for supporting an effort, started by President Obama in 2009, to harmonize a mishmash of greenhouse gas emissions and fuel economy standards set by the E.P.A., the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and CARB.
Having taken almost $80 billion in bailout money, General Motors and Chrysler, especially, were in no position to resist.
Still, the automakers soon balked at the ambitious pace of fuel efficiency improvements under the program, which requires automakers to progressively raise the fuel economy of their cars to an average of 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025, nearly double the average in 2012.
That comes to about 36 miles per gallon in real-world driving.
That aggressive target would compel automakers to speed the development of hybrid and electric cars, and to improve the fuel efficiency of their conventional fleets.
Automakers also argued that meeting that target would be prohibitively costly, forcing them to raise car prices or to make more battery-powered vehicles than Americans want to buy.
In a compromise, the automakers agreed to the program, provided that the standards for the later years  2022-25  would be subject to a midterm review.
That review was in full swing when Mr. Trump won the presidency in late 2016.
Just a day after his electoral victory, the Auto Alliance reached out to the president-elect, urging him to rework the standards, calling them a substantial challenge for the auto industry.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In a similarly swift maneuver, the Obama administration cut short the review and finalized the rules, calling them feasible, practical and appropriate, just before leaving office.
The automakers doubled down.
In a Feb. 21 letter, the auto industry alliance implored Mr. Pruitt, the E.P.A.
head, to overturn President Obamas 11th-hour decision.
The standards, the alliance argued, threaten to depress an industry that can ill afford spiraling regulatory costs.
The E.P.A.
has reversed President Obamas decision.
Last month, the agency officially called for comments on standards for model years 2021-25, widening the reviews scope.
The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, which focuses mostly on auto safety, not emissions, is expected to lead the review.
Photo

Were going to work on the CAFE standards so you can make cars in America again, Mr. Trump said in a speech in Detroit this year, referring to the Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards, which were first put in place in 1975.
For a meaningful reprieve, however, automakers need Ms. Nichols on board.
If CARB does not sign onto the reopened review, the automakers face the prospect of separate rules for California and its follower states  a coalition that covers more than 130 million residents and more than a third of the vehicle market in the United States.
Ms. Nichols is not budging.
At the first public hearing on the reopened midterm review last week, CARBs emissions compliance chief, Annette Hebert, threatened to abandon the review if the E.P.A.
took steps to weaken the emissions standards.
Should the agency try to curtail Californias ability to set its own rules  by challenging its Clean Air Act waiver, for example  the fight will more than likely end in court, said Kevin Poloncarz, a San Francisco lawyer focusing on air and climate change law.
Pulling that waiver would be like declaring an all-out war on California, he said.
Accusations of Overreach

Even in California, some critics challenge the expansive powers of a board of unelected officials with the authority to set environmental policy.
All but two of the boards 14 voting members are appointed by the governor, and today include a doctor, an almond farmer and a paint company executive.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Over the years, CARB has expanded its reach, regulating products as diverse as lawn mowers and bulldozers, air fresheners, paint thinners and even hair and bug spray.
It has sent inspectors to Tokyo and Stuttgart, Germany, to monitor the testing of cars manufactured overseas.
And it oversees a system of air-quality management districts across California that issue and enforce their own local regulations.
Photo

The German industrial giant Siemens plans to merge its rail business with the French train equipment maker Alstom, the companies said Tuesday, creating a behemoth that can compete with the Chinese-state backed China Railway Rolling Stock Corporation.
The combined company, Siemens Alstom, would make systems and equipment for two of Europes high-speed rail lines, Germanys ICE and Frances TGV, which can zip between cities at about 185 m.p.h.
We are creating a new European champion in the rail industry for the long term, said Joe Kaeser, the chief executive of Siemens.
This will give our customers around the world a more innovative and more competitive portfolio.
The European rail industry faces pressure from China Railway Rolling Stock Corporation, which has been making an aggressive push to expand around the globe, including in the United States.
It is part of Chinas larger economic and geopolitical agenda that encourages its technology and infrastructure companies to seek foreign markets, refashioning the global economic order to draw countries and companies more tightly into the countrys orbit.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The European deal  a combination of the once-bitter rivals  seeks to compete with that, and has the support of the Alstom board and the French government, according to a joint statement from the companies.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The merger of equals, which developed as Siemens discussed joint ventures with Bombardier, a Canadian maker of trains and planes, is expected to close by the end of next year.
It will result in a company with revenue of 15.3 billion euros, or about $18 billion.
Under the agreement, Siemens will transfer its mobility business, which makes rail and signaling equipment, to Alstom in exchange for 50 percent of the new company.
Siemens Alstom will be based in the Paris area and led by Alstoms chief executive, Henri Poupart-Lafarge.
The combination of Alstom and Siemens Mobility will bring to its customers and ultimately to all citizens smarter and more efficient systems to meet mobility challenges of cities and countries, Mr. Poupart-Lafarge said.
Photo

WASHINGTON  The Environmental Protection Agency has signed a contract for nearly $25,000 to build a soundproof communications booth for the office of the administrator, Scott Pruitt.
The contract, with Acoustical Solutions in Richmond, Va., was first reported by The Washington Post.
It calls for the construction of a $24,570 privacy booth for Mr. Pruitts office.
Liz Bowman, a spokeswoman for the E.P.A., did not return requests for comment on the contract.
In a statement to The Post, she said agencies needed to have such booths to guard against hacking and eavesdropping.
This is something which a number, if not all, Cabinet offices have and E.P.A.
needs to have updated, she said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in Climate Change?
Sign up to receive our in-depth journalism about climate change around the world.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Critics say Mr. Pruitt has gone to unusual lengths to operate in secrecy at the E.P.A., where employees report he is often accompanied by armed guards even inside the agency, and avoids making important calls in his office.
He is the first E.P.A.
administrator to have round-the-clock security.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Steve Snider, a salesman at Acoustical Solutions who handled the E.P.A.
contract, said privacy booths are typically used to conduct hearing tests and cost $5,000 to $6,000.
He said the E.P.A.
had requested significant modifications that ultimately required a custom order for the booth with the manufacturer.
The first neighbors he met were Glenda and Van Keck, organic farmers who have lived on Dusty Drive since 1974.
They were worried about the cannabis growing right from the get go, Mr. Wagner said.
And I came over in hopes of quelling their concerns, to introduce myself, and to show them my plans.
At the time, he wanted to cultivate half an acre of organically grown marijuana, or about 1,000 pounds per year.
He told the Kecks he would process in the barn using ice and water, a nonchemical method.
Mr. Keck grumbled about his property values, Mr. Wagner said.
Glenda Keck was largely silent.
She became very uncomfortable pretty quickly, and she left to go to Costco.
The Kecks did not return phone calls seeking comment.
Parvathy Mahesh said she and her husband, Harihara, were told an older couple was moving in, not a pot farmer.
She worried about trucks rumbling past her front yard, close to Mr. Wagners gate.
And the road was too steep to sustain commercial traffic, she said.
If it was on a private road, that would be one thing, Ms. Mahesh said.
But this road is shared by all the residents.
In early March, the Maheshes called the Kecks.
Then they went to talk to Mr. Momtazi at his tasting room.
I said, I dont know anything about this, Mr. Momtazi said.
He recalled that he and Mr. Wagner talked weeks earlier.
His new neighbor mostly complimented him on his biodynamic farming practices, he said, and failed to mention marijuana.
Mr. Wagner said he was hesitant to mention his farm, but did address the topic.
The visit from the Maheshes sent Mr. Momtazi reeling.
He wasnt opposed to marijuana use, but a processing operation was something altogether different.
His daughter, Hanna, who oversees events, scoured the internet and found Mr. Wagners Instagram account.
On Jan. 14, he posted a photograph of the barn, a wall of storm clouds on the horizon.
The future sight of greenhouses, and processing facility, Mr. Wagner wrote.
Watch for the build out coming soon!
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Twelve days later, he posted another photograph, this time a selfie, his scruffy brown hair tucked under a baseball cap.
When Im out on my land, my eyes stay glowing, and I still pinch myself occasionally just to make sure this is real!
he wrote.
The posts stretched back to October 2016, about the same time the previous owners were negotiating with the neighbors to make it possible for the Wagners to buy the land.
He was planning this all along, Hanna Momtazi said.
Mr. Momtazi and the Maheshes researched the marijuana industry.
The more they learned, the more nervous they became.
State regulations required the Wagners to install cameras near gates and fences, along with motion sensors and alarms.
There was the problem of the shared steep road.
And, despite telling the Kecks he would not use chemicals, Mr. Wagner, in his initial business application, stated he wanted to use solvents, which are highly flammable.
This gave his neighbors pause.
Many explosions at illicit butane hash oil labs, for example, have been reported in Oregon, leading to fire and death.
When asked about it, Mr. Wagner said he did not intend to mislead his neighbors.
But by then, the relationships had soured.
An attempt at dtente failed.
Mr. Wagner said he got into a shouting match with Mr. Momtazi over the phone.
We had very little trust, Ms. Mahesh said.
So, when the county commissioners agreed to hold a hearing in April regarding Mr. Wagners processing facility, the neighbors showed up in force.
Furious Messages

Photo

At 10:49 a.m. on April 13, Mr. Wagner and a dozen of his neighbors and their supporters met face to face in Room 32 in the county courthouse in downtown McMinnville.
Mr. Wagner spoke first, outlining his organic farming and processing practices and why he believed he would have no negative impact on the environment.
A pile of grievances followed.
Mr. Momtazi warned that the marijuana operation would produce foul-smelling particles that could change the flavor of his grapes.
He worried, too, that the reservoir he built might get contaminated if Mr. Wagner used pesticides or solvents.
The Maheshes complained about the condition of the road and a lack of privacy once Mr. Wagners cameras went up.
And the Kecks said the value of their land would plummet next door to a pot farm.
Ms. Keck even mentioned that the smell of marijuana set off her migraines.
After an hour and a half, Mr. Wagner and his opponents were spent.
I thought I was going to blackout, I was so mad, he said.
He ended the hearing, telling the commissioners that Yamhill County farmers were once afraid of wineries.
But now they were the lifeblood of the Willamette Valley.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Three days after the hearing, the Maneshes and Mr. Momtazi petitioned a judge for a temporary restraining order against Mr. Wagner.
The petition was denied.
On April 19, The Oregonian published an article about the feud.
More than 500 people posted comments online, most in support of Mr. Wagner.
Within days, Mr. Momtazi started getting threatening phone calls.
We are going to burn the building, he recalled one person saying on his answering machine.
They said that?
asked his wife, Flora, who was visiting the winery.
Yeah, we didnt tell you that, he said.
It was really scary.
They said, We are going to kill you.
We are going to burn the building.
And that is when we called the sheriff and we found out one of the calves was mysteriously dead.
The tail of one of the cows was cut in half.
His wife stared, dumbfounded.
She kept telling us, Mr. Momtazi said of his wife, You need to be careful.
Hanna, Mr. Momtazis daughter, retrieved her cellphone.
Ganja rules, man!
one caller shouted.
Another left his phone number.
She played the recording.
Whats wrong with you, the man said, his message peppered with foul language.
Try to live peaceably among your neighbors.
The man was Richard Colvin, 53, a Portland resident who said in an interview he heard about the story from local news.
When asked, though, he could not recall what the dispute was about.
He blamed the media.
The way it sounded to us it was a bunch of people whining about a marijuana grower, he said.
Maybe I was feeling bad, but Im tired of the whole marijuana nonsense.
He later apologized to the Momtazis.
But by then, Mr. Momtazi had had enough.
He filed an incident report with the sheriffs office and told them about the threatening calls.
He installed cameras around the vineyard.
And Hanna stayed overnight in case an arsonist showed up.
Indeed every time the tussle made headlines, like when BuzzFeed wrote about it in August, the winery was subjected to another wave of threats.
As a result, Mr. Momtazi became even more suspicious of the marijuana community.
It is a scare tactic they use, Mr. Momtazi said of the calls.
That made me more firm.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Island of Love

Photo

Rick Olson, the former mayor of McMinnville and one of Yamhill Countys three commissioners at the Wagner hearing, met me at the Red Fox Bakery downtown for a cup of coffee.
McMinnville has a quirky vibe, a cultural stew of aging hippies, hipsters with man buns and young professionals who enjoy the relaxed Oregon vibe.
Each May the town celebrates its U.F.O.
Festival, a weekend extravaganza with parades and costume contests.
We always say there is the Yamhill County and there is the rest of Oregon, Mr. Olson said.
In June, the commissioners voted to uphold the appeal in favor of Mr. Momtazi and the other neighbors.
Mr. Olson said he was concerned about how much water Mr. Wagners processing facility might use, as well as the safety of the road shared with neighbors.
We upheld the appeal based on these issues, Mr. Olson said.
It had nothing to do with whether we like marijuana or not.
Mr. Wagner is not out of the business altogether; he can still apply for a permit to grow marijuana commercially.
The lawsuit filed against Mr. Wagner by his neighbors is pending.
Mr. Wagner said the odds of being able to process at his farm are slim to none.
Instead he would like to join a farm collective or find an investor to fund his operation.
No one ever really met me, he said in an interview last week.
Its like they act like I should go someplace else.
Mr. Momtazi sent an email last week with one of Mr. Wagners deleted Instagram posts that showed the barn against a brilliant sky at sunset.
Right now I am an island of love with an ocean of fear around me, Mr. Wagner had written.
Then, he added, #xenophobia is #venom to the #haters and those they believe they #hate #manifestdestiny #cannabiscommunity.
Mr. Momtazi surmised that Mr. Wagner hasnt exactly embraced them, either.
Posts like that split their farm community, he wrote, causing more hatred toward us.
Select number of bedrooms Any Beds Studio 1 1 or more 2 2 or more 3 3 or more 4 4 or more 5 5 or more

Select number of bedrooms Any Baths 1 1 or more 2 2 or more 3 3 or more 4 4 or more 5 5 or more
Two words: body language.
Ms. de Cadenet said she learned how to read body language as a means of survival as a 15-year-old when she was in a juvenile detention center.
You can sense whether someone is retreating from you: They look away, they cross their arms, theyll shift their focus, they will turn their body away, she said.
Also, pay attention to their eyes.
When I was interviewing Hillary Clinton, I knew when Id ask her something that she wasnt going to give me the complete truth because she would break eye contact with me.
Photo

How to have a hard conversation

Call out the elephant in the room.
In Ms. de Cadenets book, she outlines a conversation she had with a friend who confessed to her that she was sleeping with a married man.
To have a difficult talk, Ms. de Cadenet starts by acknowledging the awkwardness.
Just say, This is really uncomfortable for both of us.
This is not a conversation I want to have.
And I know you dont.
But I think we have to talk about this, she said.
How to create that safe space

Be trustworthy.
You have to be someone that when your friends tell you something, they dont hear it back from other people.
Also, be willing to share your own feelings.
Ive been privileged to be able to be a part of some of my girlfriends lives at their breaking points, said Ms. de Cadenet, who was friends with Gwyneth Paltrow when she uncoupled from Chris Martin, as well as with Amber Heard when she accused Johnny Depp of domestic violence.
And they will be in the trenches with you at some point.
Over time, that creates safety.
How do you know how much to share about yourself?
Consider the impact.
Ms. de Cadenet has had her life blasted on the British tabloids since she was a teenager, and she does not advocate oversharing, especially on social media.
I think we are in major T.M.I.
culture right now, she said.
I share personal things about myself in the context of my interviews and in Its Messy  but thats 20 percent of my life.
There is another 80 percent that hasnt been talked about, or its not all the information.
Its enough that I needed to illustrate that story.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
How to know when to have a conversation

Research and know the facts.
For some parents, talking about pornography with their children at a young age seems inappropriate.
But Ms. de Cadenet knows that young people come across, and search for, pornography at extremely young ages.
She has spoken to her 10-year-old children about pornography, she said.
Other parents would be like, Oh, that is way too young, but what I know from my research is: It isnt too young.
How to deal with small talk

Just take a hard pass.
Just get rid of it immediately, she said.
Do not sit down with that person again.
I hate small talk!
I cant do it.
How to reach out to someone in a crisis

Keep putting your hand out, and need nothing back.
I had one girlfriend recently who had a monumental loss in her life, and I just sent her texts every day every day that just said, I love you, or I sent her a heart emoji, she said.
And I dont expect a response.
How do you get people to share their most vulnerable self?
What would you tell your 14-year-old self?
is the question that Ms. de Cadenet has found connects people to their most vulnerable and genuine self.
She said the age of 14 is a transitional age between girlhood and womanhood, a time that often evokes tears and emotions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

How do you empower women in a professional setting?
Be willing to not be liked.
Its not about being liked.
Its about your idea being heard, said Ms. de Cadenet, who was recently in a scenario in which a group full of men kept talking over her and she had to ask them to stop.
That didnt go down very well.
Do they like me?
Do I care?
Was I heard?
For an agency that prizes prompt disclosure of accurate information and has pursued enforcement cases for companies that fail to disclose or update information for investors, it appears that the S.E.C.
could use a dose of its own medicine.
But the hacking is more than a simple stumble for the S.E.C.
It has provided a road map for what compromised companies can say in the future  using the S.E.C.s own words  and raised the question of how the commission would secure hugely valuable information if it succeeds in its goal of collecting even more of it.
In announcing the breach last week, Mr. Clayton noted that even the most diligent cybersecurity efforts will not address all cyberrisks that enterprises face.
Those words are certain to be cited back to the S.E.C.
by any company  especially Equifax  when questions are raised about the systems it uses to prevent digital attacks and make a timely disclosure to the public when they do occur.
The Edgar system has been misused before, including a 2015 scheme to manipulate the shares of Avon by filing a fake tender offer for the company that temporarily drove up the value of its shares.
That is akin to a spam email or another type of spoof that has a modest impact on the market and does not raise questions about the probity of the financial system.
The more ominous message about the breach is that only recently has it come to light that the information may have been used to generate trading profit.
Much of what is in the Edgar system is made available to the public, but any preview before the release of information can be turned into enormous profit now that trading strategies can be executed in milliseconds.
Although Mr. Clayton claimed that the hacking did not result in systemic risk, the misuse of confidential information  especially when noticing it may have taken months  threatens the integrity of the financial markets.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The use of stolen information from the Edgar system has been likened to insider trading, but there is a crucial difference when hacking is involved.
Insider trading requires showing a violation of a fiduciary duty in misusing the information for personal gain, but hackers are thieves who are bound by no such fiduciary duty.
It is no surprise that the hackers are at risk of penalties  in 2015, the Justice Department and the S.E.C.
charged a group of Ukrainian hackers with fraud over trading on market-moving information before it was released to the public, generating profit of more than $100 million.
A 2009 decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Manhattan in S.E.C.
v. Dorozhko allowed civil securities fraud charges to proceed against a hacker who gained access to a companys earnings report to trade on it before its release.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But what of those who might have acquired that information from them?
For a start, they are not at risk of insider trading charges.
And criminal charges could hinge on proving that they knew the information had been acquired illegally.
The insider trading laws do not apply because someone who acquired the information would not be what is known as a tippee under the fiduciary duty analysis.
But prosecution is possible under a federal statute, 18 U.S.C.
641, that makes it a crime to receive any record, voucher, money, or thing of value knowing it has been stolen and using it for personal gain.
That provision has been interpreted by the federal appeals courts to cover intangible property, so anyone buying confidential information from the Edgar database could come within this prohibition.
Proving knowledge when someone buys stolen property can be a challenge because one can always profess ignorance, but prosecutors have had success in showing that a buyer was deliberately ignorant of how information had been acquired.
Keeping your head in the sand does not mean you lacked the requisite intent.
For the S.E.C., the hacking makes protecting private information even more important as it embarks on creating a new database known as the Consolidated Audit Trail that will host a trove of information about every order in the securities and options markets, including the identity of each account holder.
The goal is to open a window for the agency into whether there is any manipulation of the markets or to provide a means to determine the cause of trading disruptions, such as the flash crash in 2010, when the Dow Jones industrial average dropped more than 600 points in a matter of minutes.
The C.A.T.
will have enormous potential value  far beyond what is in the Edgar database  by potentially giving clues about the trading strategies of large investors, such as mutual funds and pensions, that buy and sell millions of shares daily.
Imagine how much a peek at that information would be worth to traders looking to get out ahead of large transactions to profit from the small changes in stock prices when they hit the market.
The temptation to hack the database will be powerful, which means protecting it will be one of the S.E.C.s highest priorities.
Can the agency be trusted with that much valuable information?
The industry has resisted the creation of the C.A.T., and the hacking at the S.E.C.
will be an additional argument for those seeking to derail the program.
If Mr. Clayton is right that cyberattacks are going to happen even with the best defenses in place, then the small software flaws that hackers exploited at the S.E.C.
and Equifax add fuel to the fire of doubt about how secure anyones information can be.
Photo

Move fast and break things may have been Facebooks mantra, but few companies have taken the slogan to heart like Uber Technologies.
The ride-hailing company, which not long ago was valued at nearly $70 billion, has pushed aggressively into one market after another.
In London, watchdogs are now pushing back, and the Silicon Valley invader is finally seeking permission to continue operating, rather than asking for after-the-fact forgiveness for breaking rules.
Dara Khosrowshahi only recently took over as chief executive from Travis Kalanick, an Uber founder who was forced out of the top job for allowing, with an insufficiently vigilant board, a frat-boy culture to permeate the rapidly growing company.
With Ubers reputation tarnished and its valuation in danger of falling, Mr. Khosrowshahi came into the job on a damage-limitation mission.
That was even before Londons transportation regulator, Transport for London, dropped its bombshell last week, declining to renew the companys license to operate in the British capital.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Many Londoners are up in arms.
A Save Your Uber petition begun by the company  a tactic that previously helped reverse regulators decisions in London and New York  has attracted nearly 800,000 signatures.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Aside from valuing the usefulness and cost-effectiveness of the service, some Uber users fear that Transport for Londons decision suggests that London isnt as open for business as it likes to appear, especially with the so-called Brexit looming.
Yet officials elsewhere have shown themselves even less accommodating.
Uber executives were arrested in France, for example.
And rules mostly exist for a reason.
Apple alone is sitting on an overseas stash of almost $260 billion, according to Bloomberg, while Microsoft has more than $120 billion parked abroad.
The pharmaceutical giant Pfizer does not regularly disclose how much of its offshore profits are stored in foreign tax havens, but the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy estimates that at the end of 2016, it held almost $200 billion abroad.
Photo

Of course, the standard claims are being made about the vast stimulative effects of the repatriated cash.
They are being met this time with vigorous counterclaims based on the results of the Bush administrations shot over a decade ago.
Back then, companies found their way around regulations forbidding this use of the money to simply benefit shareholders and corporate chiefs.
A Senate commission reported that the top 15 repatriating corporations reduced their overall United States work force by 20,931 jobs, even as share buybacks increased and the annual compensation for their top five executives jumped 27 percent from 2004 to 2005 and another 30 percent the next year.
Pfizer, for instance, brought back $35.5 billion, the largest amount repatriated by a single company during the tax holiday, according to the Senate report.
Then it turned around and spent over $20 billion in stock repurchases from 2005 to 2007.
By 2007, the aggregate compensation of its top five executives was nearly $13 million higher than in 2004.
Its United States payroll was 12,000 smaller.
The pattern was similar across most repatriating companies.
Hewlett-Packard, which brought home $14.5 billion, bought back $22 billion worth of stock over the three years and cut its payroll by more than 8,500.
The tobacco company Altria, which brought over $6 billion home during the holiday, spent $2.5 billion on share buybacks and bumped pay in the executive ranks by more than $50 million, but cut 6,000 jobs.
A few years back, Ms. Forbes explained to my colleague Floyd Norris how the computer manufacturer Dell had lobbied hard for the holiday  claiming that part of the money would be used to build a plant in Winston-Salem, N.C.
They did bring back $4 billion, and spent $100 million on the plant, which they admitted would have been built anyway, she said.
About two months after that, they used $2 billion for a share buyback.
Profits Held Outside the U.S.
The 10 companies with the most profit held outside the United States last year, in billions.
Apple Pfizer Microsoft G.E.
IBM Johnson & Johnson Cisco Merck Google Exxon Mobil $230.2 197.1 124.0 82.0 71.4 66.2 65.6 63.1 60.7 54.0

With a new move afoot to put such holdings back on American books, there is a critical question that is too quickly glossed over: Why do businesses act this way?
Why didnt corporate executives invest more in their businesses and their work forces?
Why did they go to the trouble of dribbling around a rule forbidding the use of repatriated profits to pay themselves a bonus?
(Note to Congress: Money is fungible.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Call me nave.
Professor Forbes and her colleagues  indeed, many economists  might swat the question away by arguing that businesses didnt use the extra cash to invest and employ because they were well-run businesses, well invested and sufficiently staffed to maximize their profitability.
There is truth to this argument.
In fact, most corporate investment today comes not from retained earnings but from borrowing.
Bringing a foreign profit stash home has little effect on investment incentives.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Still, the question should resonate in an administration that came to power on a promise to address the plight of the working class.
Because the working class stands on the other end of a deal with the corporate class.
I dont think it is possible to fully address workers demands without understanding, and changing, corporate motivations.
Many forces have shaped this deal, including technology, which replaced workers performing routine tasks, and globalization, which squeezed the margins of many businesses and exposed their workers to competition from cheap labor markets.
And yet it would be a mistake to ignore the impact of a corporate ethos that has come to focus on rewarding shareholders and executives at the expense of any other consideration  be it workers welfare or even the companys long-term sustainability.
Indeed, workers today amount to little more than a line on the cost side of businesses balance sheets, with little claim to its prosperity.
Corporate profits have risen over the last quarter-century, as a share of the nations income, even as the workers share has shrunk.
While executive pay has soared  padded with stock options and shares  the earnings of ordinary workers are below where they were in the 1970s.
Whats more, the pensions that ensured workers a retirement perch in the middle class have been replaced by 401(k) savings accounts  which are cheaper for companies but put workers retirement prospects at the mercy of the stock market.
How you divide the pie is a choice, said Rick Wartzman, who heads the KH Moon Center for a Functioning Society at the Drucker Institute of Claremont Graduate University.
It is being carved differently.
The change has happened across the board.
In his book The End of Loyalty, published in May by Public Affairs, Mr. Wartzman lays out a shift in corporate culture both in success stories like Coca-Cola and General Electric and in less successful ones, like Eastman Kodak and General Motors.
For workers, the story was the same, whether they were working at a winner or a losing firm, he said.
The good news is that it is not impossible to modify the behavior of the corporate leaders who have so drastically altered the contract with their work force over the last few decades.
While it may be tempting to cast the new breed of executives as selfish villains who somehow lost their sense of right and wrong, the shift in their behavior responded to a shift in the incentives they faced.
It was fed by a belief that snaked its way three or four decades ago from the halls of the University of Chicago through investment-bank trading floors and into the corner offices of corporate America: that the interests of corporate managers must be brought into tight alignment with those of shareholders.
It was accompanied by one of the most destabilizing propositions in the modern history of corporate governance: This alignment was best achieved by paying corporate managers almost exclusively with stock.
Mihir A. Desai of Harvard Business School argues that this strategy amounted to outsourcing corporate compensation decisions to the capital markets  which have no way of telling whether the rise or fall in shares is caused by executives strategies or simply luck.
This produced an enormous bubble in chief executive pay  which rose in tandem with the stock.
It also made chief executives jobs more uncertain, vulnerable to market downturns.
And it vastly distorted their behavior, putting every decision at the service of the share price at the close of the quarter.
Professor Desai points out that in the end, this structure does not really serve shareholders, at least not those with an interest in a companys prosperity more than a few quarters down the road.
Capitalism seems to be serving managers and investment managers at the expense of shareholders, he wrote.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Changing this behavior is not beyond the reach of policy.
Just as changes in the tax treatment of executive pay in the 1990s encouraged stock-based remuneration, tax reforms might motivate corporate executives to invest for the long term rather than for an immediate stock bump  maybe even encourage stable employment and worker training.
Until then, offering tax breaks to American corporations seems more likely to line the pockets of executives and shareholders than to improve their long-term prospects or the prosperity of their workers.
The shake-up is the culmination of weeks of mounting public and legal pressure on the Atlanta-based data clearinghouse from citizens, politicians and investors.
The companys lackluster response to the breach has prompted consumer outrage, while lawmakers have begun pushing for tougher oversight of the industry.
Although Mr. Smith retired, the board took an unusual step that reflected the damage from the breach.
The board said it could retroactively classify Mr. Smith as having been fired for cause.
If that were to happen, Mr. Smith would probably be required to forgo or repay certain compensation.
Mr. Smith will be replaced on an interim basis by the companys head of its Asia-Pacific region, Paulino do Rego Barros Jr. One of Equifaxs outside board members, Mark Feidler, will succeed Mr. Smith as nonexecutive chairman.
The company is now conducting a search for a permanent chief executive that includes internal and external candidates.
Speaking for everyone on the board, I sincerely apologize, said Mr. Feidler, an Atlanta-based private equity executive.
But management changes alone are unlikely to quell the complaints of critics.
Multiple congressional committees are planning hearings into the breach and Equifaxs response to it.
More than 30 state law-enforcement authorities have opened inquiries, as has the F.B.I.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, said Tuesday that it is not real accountability if the guy promoted to chairman is an Equifax board member who served on the committee that was responsible for overseeing data security.
The Equifax breach, which exposed the personal information of up to 143 million Americans, has cast a harsh spotlight on the companys governance.
Its board of directors largely consists of low-profile retired corporate executives.
Half of the 10 outside board members are past or present fixtures of the Atlanta business community.
Mr. Smith, 57, took over as chief executive in 2005, after a 22-year career at General Electric in which he worked in the conglomerates asset-management, insurance and leasing divisions.
At Equifax, he presided over a period of rapidly growing sales, driven by expanding troves of sensitive personal data.
Profits rose, and the stock price followed.
When the crisis hit, the company stumbled.
Its website repeatedly crashed as millions of desperate individuals tried to find out whether their information was part of the breach.
People who were potentially affected were unable to sign up for protection the company was offering or, even if they had been successful, could not get the service activated.
Equifax also charged many people to freeze their credit files before reversing course in the wake of fierce criticism.
In an early bid to contain the crisis, Equifax said on Sept. 14 that two top executives, its chief information officer and chief security officer, were stepping down.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But the storm was intensifying  and the board decided it needed to take more drastic action.
Before the attack, the company would most likely have turned to its top executive ranks.
One obvious candidate, Joseph M. Loughran III, runs Equifaxs core credit reporting division and previously served as its chief marketing officer.
By the time Equifaxs board meeting began last Wednesday evening, it was clear that Mr. Loughran and others were no longer in the running.
Three executives, including Mr. Loughran, had sold $1.8 million worth of shares in the days after the hack was discovered.
The company says the executives who sold shares had not been aware of the breach at the time of the sales.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

With a limited pool of candidates, the board turned to Mr. Barros, who joined Equifax in 2010 and was most recently based in Sydney, Australia.
Before that, he had a long career working at telecommunications companies including BellSouth and AT&T.
He is an experienced leader with deep knowledge of our company and the industry, said Ines Gutzmer, an Equifax spokeswoman.
The board of directors has absolute confidence in his ability to guide the company through this transition.
Mr. Feidler, the new chairman, comes from a similar background as Mr. Barros.
A longtime telecom executive and banker, Mr. Feidler was president and chief operating officer at BellSouth until its 2006 merger with AT&T.
The following year, he co-founded the Atlanta private-equity firm MSouth Equity Partners.
Equifaxs board has created a special committee to review the data breach.
As part of his departure agreement, Mr. Smith agreed that Equifax can decide at a later date on the specific terms of his departure, based on the findings of the special committee.
Mr. Smith has been very cooperative and supportive of this approach, said Wyatt Jefferies, an Equifax spokesman.
Mr. Smith will retain about $18.4 million in pension benefits, according to a regulatory filing.
He also holds around $20.8 million in stock awards, according to Equilar, which tracks executive compensation.
Those shares would be forfeited if his termination is decided to have been for cause.
Mr. Smith owns Equifax shares worth $23.6 million.
He received bonuses of roughly $3 million in 2015 and 2016, but agreed to waive any bonus for this year after the hack.
Mr. Smith had been scheduled to appear at two congressional hearings next week, but his departure raised questions about whether he could choose not to testify.
A C.E.O.
walking out the door just days before he is to appear before Congress is an abdication of his responsibility, said Senator Brian Schatz, Democrat of Hawaii.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Jefferies, the Equifax spokesman, indicated that Mr. Smith would still cooperate.
If Congress asks him, he will go, Mr. Jefferies said.
Photo

SAN FRANCISCO  In a rare example of high-level cultural philanthropy from Silicon Valleys entrepreneurial elite, Jerry Yang, a Yahoo co-founder, and his wife, Akiko Yamazaki, have pledged $25 million toward a $90-million transformation project of the Asian Art Museum here.
It marks the largest financial gift in the history of the museum, which is owned by the city but privately operated.
We are in the right place at the right time, said the museums director, Jay Xu, of the gift, which brings the pan-Asian museum up to the $61-million mark for fund-raising.
Both Akiko and Jerry stand out for their support of the arts and culture sector.
Ms. Yamazaki is the museums board chair, and Mr. Yang and she both collect: her main focus is Song dynasty ceramics, while he has assembled a selection of Chinese calligraphy that was shown at the museum starting in 2012 and traveled to the Met in 2014.
The Bangkok-born, L.A.-based architect Kulapat Yantrasast, who recently transformed a Masonic Temple into the Marciano Foundation, has been overseeing the Asian Art Museums renovation and expansion, which is expected to break ground this January and be completed in summer of 2019.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The most striking addition will be a new structure on top of the museums east wing, to be called the Akiko Yamazaki & Jerry Yang Pavilion, featuring an 8,500 square-foot exhibition space.
On top of the pavilion will be an open-air terrace for public art.
Mr. Yantrasast is also redesigning education and exhibition spaces inside, including collection galleries that highlight the museums masterpieces.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Construction is budgeted at $38 million, with the rest of the $90 million earmarked for programs and endowment.
This is not the Asian Art Museums first renovation in its current home, a 1917 Beaux-Arts building in the Civic Center that long served as San Franciscos main public library.
Before taking over this space in 2003, the museum borrowed $120 million from JPMorgan Chase to finance a renovation by the Italian architect Gae Aulenti.
In 2010, it defaulted on its loan.
The following year, the bank and a bond insurer forgave $21 million in debt, and the city guaranteed $99 million worth of 30-year bonds in order to keep the museum open.
The museum now carries $90 million in debt.
Others are trying to straddle the divide.
Bloombergs Jeff Green and Eben Novy-Williams:

 Nike said it supports athletes and their right of freedom of expression on issues that are of great importance to our society.
Hyundai said it would stand for and respect individuals freedoms to express their First Amendment rights in any peaceful manner in which they choose.
Ford Motor said that it respected individuals rights to express their views, even if they are not ones we share.
Thats part of what makes America great.
But Denvers CBS4 reports that kneeling during the anthem appears to have cost the Denver Broncos linebacker Von Miller an endorsement from a local car dealership.
Worth Noting

Two of Mr. Trumps friends in the N.F.L.
have rebuked the presidents comments.
The New England quarterback Tom Brady to a Boston sports radio show: Yeah, I certainly disagree with what he said.
I thought it was just divisive.
The Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones linked arms with his players and knelt before the anthem played in last nights game against the Arizona Cardinals.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the DealBook Newsletter Every weekday, twice a day, get the news driving the markets and the latest on mergers and acquisitions.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
CBSs ratings for the N.F.L.
games it carried on Sunday were up 4 percent from last week, according to Yahoo Sportss Frank Schwab.
NBCs were down slightly, NBC News reports.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Greenhill Gets a Lifeline

The initiatives that the embattled investment bank announced on Monday come as its shares have fallen nearly 73 percent over the last five years.
The Terms

 Goldman Sachs will provide $300 million financing to buy back stock.
Greenhills founder, Robert Greenhill, and its chief executive, Scott Bok, will buy $10 million worth of stock.
Mr. Bok is taking a 90 percent salary cut.
Greenhill will buy as many as nine million outstanding shares for $17 each, an 18 percent premium to the stocks closing price on Monday.
The Context

The Financial Times's Sujeet Indap and James Fontanella-Khan point out that newer firms like Moelis & Company and Centerview Partners have grown faster in recent years.
And The Wall Street Journal's Liz Hoffman notes:

Mr. Greenhill has stepped back from the business in recent years, friends and employees say.
Key relationships that spurred deals in the firms early years have gone quiet as key contacts retire.
What Obama Is Telling Wall Street

Photo

The former presidents speech at the brokerage firm Cantor Fitzgerald didnt include swipes at the Trump administration.
What it did include: A sober look at what the Affordable Care Act accomplished and what needs fixing.
More from The Timess Kate Kelly, who was on the scene:

Mr. Obama ended up fielding only one inquiry  about technology and government health care costs  and answered it soberly and at length, running out the clock.
Mr. Obama then beseeched the audience of health care business professionals to keep the sick and scared at the core of what they did.
If youre going to make money this way, you better think about it, he said.
Entrepreneurs Abuse in Colombia Prison

Kaleil Isaza Tuzman, a former dot-com entrepreneur and Goldman Sachs banker, faces trial in October in federal court in Manhattan on charges of conspiracy to commit security and wire fraud.
But he had already spent 10 months in a Colombian prison, where, he says, he was abused and raped.
Mr. Tuzman recounted his experience to DealBooks Andrew Ross Sorkin:

They pushed me down to the floor by my head and shoulders.
One of them had a knife at my Adams apple.
I tried to leave my body, pretend that I wasnt living it.
I wanted to die.
Ive regretted at times since then that I didnt jerk my head away and let my throat be cut.
How to Woo Amazon

Photo

Cities are going to extreme lengths to draw the e-commerce titans attention, according to The Timess Nellie Bowles:

 Getting an Amazon Echo to suggest your city when asked where the company should build its second headquarters (Danbury, Conn.; Washington)

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 Building war rooms to analyze what Jeff Bezos likes (Detroit; Tulsa, Okla.)

 Sending delegations to Seattle (Philadelphia; Ottawa)

Jeff Cheney, the mayor of Frisco, Tex., made a video:

The video opens on him holding an Amazon box and saying, Amazon, youre growing your business, and we want to grow with you.
Jerry Jones, the owner of the Dallas Cowboys, is seen talking about catching the Frisco Flu, which the mayors office said was a phrase Mr. Jones came up with.
Mr. Cheney also gets a Jamba Juice (Jamba Juice is based in Frisco).
Quote of the Day

Photo

While Uber has revolutionized the way people move in cities around the world, its equally true that weve got things wrong along the way.
On behalf of everyone at Uber globally, I apologize for the mistakes weve made.
Ubers chief executive, Dara Khosrowshahi, in an open letter in Londons Evening Standard
Dalos told Brown that he had seen the police around Fawnbrook and that the victims mother told him that the boys had been arrested.
He also pointed Brown to a couple of Facebook groups that were created in response to the crime.
Brown scrolled through them on his cellphone and saw links flying back and forth with articles that said that the little girl had been gang raped at knife point, that the perpetrators were Syrian refugees and that their fathers had celebrated with them afterward by giving them high fives.
The stories also claimed that the City Council and the police department were conspiring to bury the crime.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Over the weekend, Brown plowed through his daily packs of cigarettes as he watched hundreds, then thousands, of people joining the groups.
Their panic appeared to be piqued by a mass shooting, the deadliest in American history, that had just occurred at Pulse nightclub in Orlando.
The perpetrator had declared allegiance to ISIS.
The commenters also posted stories that claimed refugees were responsible for a rash of rapes in Europe and that a similar phenomenon in the United States was imminent.
My girl is blond and blue-eyed, one woman wrote.
I am extremely worried about her safety.
The details of the Fawnbrook case, as it became known, were still unclear to Brown, but he was skeptical of what he was reading.
For one thing, he knew from his own previous reporting that no Syrians had been resettled in Twin Falls after all.
He woke up early on Monday to get a head start on clarifying things as much as possible in order to write a follow-up article.
Before he got into the office, a friend texted him, telling him to check the Drudge Report.
At the top, a headline screamed: REPORT: Syrian Refugees Rape Little Girl at Knifepoint in Idaho.
Photo

As the only city of any size for 100 miles in any direction, Twin Falls serves as a modest hub within southern Idahos vast agricultural sprawl.
Its population of about 45,000 nearly doubles each day as people travel there to work, primarily in the thriving agribusinesses.
But its bucolic rhythms still allow for children to play outside unattended and make driving a meditative experience.
Surrounding the city and sprinkled among its tidy tract neighborhoods, potatoes, alfalfa, sugar beets and corn grow in fields.
Half a million dairy cows in the area produce three-quarters of the states milk supply.
Because of its location, Twin Falls is home to major food processors like Chobani Yogurt, Clif Bar and Glanbia Nutritionals, a dairy company.
All have large facilities in town and have helped to push down the unemployment rate to just under 3 percent, below the national average.
The wealth of easy-to-find low-skilled jobs made Twin Falls attractive as a place for resettling refugees, and they began arriving in the 1980s, at that time mostly from Cambodia and the former Yugoslavia.
Nearly 2,500 refugees have moved to the town over the years.
Most Twin Falls residents are churchgoing, and about half of those are Mormons.
Locally owned stores and restaurants are generally closed on Sundays, and the city has not voted for a Democratic presidential candidate since Franklin Delano Roosevelt in 1936.
Liberals often register as Republicans just to have an opportunity to participate in the electoral process, by voting in the primaries.
If a Republican is going to win regardless, the thinking goes, they would at least like to play a role in deciding which one prevails.
The same qualities that bind the townspeople together can, in turn, be alienating to newcomers.
The refugee community has begun to experience this effect as its demographic makeup has changed.
Over the past decade and a half, as conflict spread across North Africa and the Middle East, Twin Falls started to resettle larger numbers of refugees with darker skin who follow an unfamiliar religion  two things that make it difficult to blend into a town that is 80 percent white.
On a national scale, an ascendant network of anti-Muslim activists and provocateurs has exploited the fears brought on by these changes, finding a platform and a receptive audience online.
The narrative they espouse  on blogs with names like Jihad Watch  is that America, currently 1 percent Muslim, is in the midst of an Islamic invasion.
Central to the worldview of these bloggers, some of whom have celebrity-size social-media followings, is that Muslims have a propensity toward sexual violence.
They seize on any news item that bolsters this notion.
Perhaps their biggest touchstone is an incident that took place in Cologne, Germany, on New Years Eve in 2015.
Mobs of men, many of them asylum seekers from the Middle East, pick-pocketed and groped more than a thousand women in and around a train station.
The German police acknowledged the incident had taken place only under pressure, as the womens stories began to leak out through the media.
This established, for these activists, the contours of a narrative that they believe has been repeating itself.
The Fawnbrook incident quickly drew their interest.
What happened in Twin Falls was sadly somewhat commonplace but not in the way the activists believed.
The local Police Department investigates sex crimes on a weekly basis, and in about half a dozen of those that proceed to court each year, the victims and the accused are both minors.
If its younger kids, its them being curious, J.R. Paredez, the lead investigator on the case, explained to me.
Some children who act out sexually have been victimized themselves, he said, while others have been exposed to explicit material at home or at school or, as is more common recently, on their cellphones.
As they start to get older, theres more of the actual sexual component to it.
Two weeks after the incident, the boys were charged with lewd and lascivious behavior against a minor.
(The 14-year-old who lent his cellphone to the boys was initially charged with the same crime.
He was not present in the laundry room, and his charge was eventually reduced to make him an accessory.)
In Idaho, this statute applies to physical contact done with the intent of arousing, appealing to, or gratifying the lust or passions or sexual desires of such person, such minor child, or third party.
Paredez said that the cellphone video made clear what specifically had happened between the children, but that he couldnt show it to the reporters who asked him about it, because doing so would have constituted criminal distribution of child pornography.
He called most of the details that he read about the case on the internet 100 percent false, like not even close to being accurate.
(The family of the accused declined to comment.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As more time passed without a solid account of what happened inside the laundry room, lurid rumors continued to surface online and came to dominate conversations in grocery stores and at school events.
And while the City Council members did not have control over the case, the bloggers who wrote about it placed much of the blame on them.
On the Monday when Twin Falls was the top story on Drudge, the City Council held another weekly meeting.
Normally only a handful of people attend, and Brown is one of the few reporters among them.
But that night, the auditorium filled until there was standing room only, and television news crews appeared from Boise and other nearby cities.
When it came time for public comments, one man got up and praised the citys handling of the case, followed by more than a dozen others who laid into the council members.
Terry Edwards handed each of them a small copy of the Constitution and told them to do their jobs.
A woman named Vicky Davis, her hair in a satiny white bob, stood up and proclaimed that Islam had declared jihad on America.
They are not compatible with our culture, she said.
They hate us.
They dont want to be Americans.
They dont want to assimilate.
What do you need to see?
What more proof do you need?
This was a highly unusual meeting, but Brown wasnt exactly surprised.
Several months earlier, when the anti-refugee activists began to organize, he started reading up to try to better understand their views.
He picked up a book by Ann Coulter and began to follow the anti-refugee blogs.
At the meeting, he felt as if he were hearing all that he had read being repeated aloud by his neighbors.
Kingsbury, the police chief, read from a statement while fumbling with a thicket of microphones piled onto the lectern by visiting reporters.
In between exasperated breaths, he explained why he could not disclose the details of the incident but said that he could address some of the misinformation that was spreading online.
There was no evidence of a knife, he said, or of any celebration afterward or of a cover-up, and no Syrians were involved: The boys were from Sudan and Iraq.
Im a kid who grew up in Idaho, he said.
Law enforcement takes these types of allegations very seriously.
However, we cant act on them within an hour.
Its not like a crime show.
He told the audience that the boys had been arrested, to applause.
But online, Kingsburys words only inflamed the activists more.
Just after midnight, someone posted his work email address on Jihad Watch, along with those of the council members and the mayor.
A commenter on another website called The Muslim Issue posted the phone numbers and email addresses for the towns government officials, the head of the refugee-resettlement center and some administrators at the college, which runs the refugee resettlement program.
From there, the information spread to more blogs and to the comments sections of far-right news outlets with massive audiences.
Photo

By 9 the next morning, messages were pouring into the inbox of the mayor of Twin Falls, Shawn Barigar, nearly every minute.
Barigar grew up in a neighboring town and went to work in Boise as a television news anchor before moving back to start a family.
His even keel and the air of sophistication he picked up while living in a comparatively big city have made him popular politically.
He is left of the town on many social issues, which has made some of his constituents suspicious of him.
But most of the people who contacted him that summer were from other states and even other countries.
Some people demanded that the city pay for a new car and apartment for the victim and her family.
Others said that local officials attempts to correct inaccurate details about the incident were veiled efforts to suggest that no crime had occurred at all, in order to protect the refugees.
Others accused him of being a globalist, a word that has taken on many definitions but in this case meant he was part of a vast, arcane conspiracy.
They believed that establishment politicians wanted to turn red states like Idaho blue by starting wars and then importing refugees from those war zones as cheap labor who would not only displace American workers but also reliably vote Democratic.
Many of the people who wrote to the mayor had a much simpler goal: to unleash their hatred of Islam.
One message, with the subject line Muslims, said that refugees were committing rapes and hit-and-runs and urinating on women and that the mayor was guilty of treason.
Its out of the bag, [expletive], it read.
We will and are holding you responsible for any and all crimes committed by these quote refugees.
No courts.
No police.
Just us.
You will answer to us in the darkness of night.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The next day, Camille Barigar, the mayors wife, arrived in her office at the college, where she ran the performing-arts center, and started listening to her voice mail.
In a calm, measured voice, a man who sounded as if he was reading from a script went on for nearly four minutes.
I wonder, Miss Barigar, if your residence was posted online and your whereabouts identified, how you would feel if half a dozen Muslim men raped and sodomized you, Miss Barigar, and when you tried to scream, broke every tooth in your mouth, he said.
And then I wonder how youd feel if, when you went to the Twin Falls Police Department, they told you to run along, that this is simply cultural diversity.
The caller said that life was becoming difficult in the United States, just as it had in England.
He referenced Jo Cox, a British member of Parliament who spoke out in support of refugees and later met with opposition in the form of a bullet to the head.
Shes dead now, he said.
Theyve buried her.
Photo

The Twins Falls story aligned perfectly with the ideology that Stephen Bannon, then the head of Breitbart News, had been developing for years, about the havoc brought on by unchecked immigration and Islamism, all of it backed by big-business interests and establishment politicians.
Bannon latched onto the Fawnbrook case and used his influence to expand its reach.
During the weeks leading up to his appointment in August 2016 to lead Donald J. Trumps campaign for president, Twin Falls was a daily topic of discussion on Bannons national radio show, where he called it the beating heart of all that the coming presidential election was about.
He sent his lead investigative reporter, Lee Stranahan, to the town to investigate the case, boasting to his audience that Stranahan was a pit bull of a reporter.
Were going to let him off the chain, he said.
Then 50, Stranahan was relatively new to journalism.
He had spent a few decades as a television producer and a graphic illustrator in Los Angeles, and on the side he shot erotic photography, which is how he met his wife.
Stranahans transition into journalism began during the television writers strike of 2007 and 2008.
To keep himself entertained, he created parody political advertisements and posted them on YouTube.
One of the first was a satirical Rudy Giuliani ad, asking Republican primary voters to support him because he had taken good care of his mistress, offering her private security courtesy of the N.Y.P.D., whereas Mitt Romney didnt even bother to take on a paramour.
Stranahan says that within weeks, the videos led to invitations to appear on CNN and to meet with a vice president at NBC and to a job offer, which he accepted, writing political comedy for The Huffington Post.
In college, Stranahan was a libertarian and even attended Ayn Rands funeral.
But when he moved to California, he became a liberal, vehemently opposing the Iraq war and the presidency of George W. Bush.
He voted for Barack Obama in 2008.
Two years later, Stranahan interviewed Andrew Breitbart, a fellow Huffington Post alumnus, for an article he was writing about Jon Stewarts Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear.
They spoke for more than three hours, bonding over their shared love of Depeche Mode.
Eventually, Breitbart became Stranahans mentor, converted him to conservatism and offered him a job.
In 2011, Breitbart took Stranahan to the Conservative Political Action Conference and introduced him to Michele Bachmann, who, in Stranahans recollection, convinced him that she had uncovered disturbing details about Islam that no one in the establishment was willing to talk about.
Stranahan says this conversation was the genesis of his concerns about the religion.
Stranahan arrived in Idaho in August, after covering the national party conventions.
The sealed nature of the case prevented any journalist from an exhaustive examination, and the accused and the victims families refused to speak to the mainstream media.
But Stranahan thrived in the void of facts.
He was granted one of the few interviews with the victims family, but his account of the crime offered little more information than others had  and far more inaccuracies, according to the police and the county prosecutor.
He described what took place as a horrific gang rape and wrote graphic details about the incident, which the Twin Falls Police say are untrue.
On Breitbart radio, Stranahan openly wondered whether Barigar, the mayor, was a big, you know, Shariah supporter.
And he suggested repeatedly that mass rapes by refugees had occurred in Europe and were inevitably coming to the United States.
If you want to wait until your country turns into France or Cologne, Germany.
If you want to wait, you can wait, he warned the audience.
But if you want to watch it and stop it now, youve got a chance to do it in November.
Photo

Stranahan says his Breitbart editors sent him to Twin Falls to report on the Muslim takeover of the town.
(Breitbart denies this and says its absurd.)
But he soon became enamored of a grander theory about what was happening in southern Idaho: globalism.
He wrote that local businesses received government kickbacks for employing foreigners instead of Americans.
(Stranahan did not cite any evidence of this, and it is untrue, according to the state Department of Labor.)
And he often referred to a Syrian refugee crisis, though no Syrians were ever resettled there.
Then, to bring the story full circle, he claimed these Muslim refugees were being used to replace American workers and that the government, big business and law enforcement were either conspiring to conceal the sexual-assault case or intentionally looking the other way, in order to keep the machine turning.
Bottom line, this is bad for business, he told me in an interview last winter, explaining his interpretation of the city officials rationale:  Im not really going to look into this too deeply because if I find out the truth, if I discover what actually happened, if I figure out the truth, its not really good for business.
Stranahan believed that Chobani, a Greek-yogurt company, was at the center of the scheme.
Breitbart had been covering the company for months, ever since the owner, Hamdi Ulukaya, a Turkish-born businessman, made a speech at the World Economic Forum at Davos encouraging other chief executives to pledge financial and political support to refugees.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

While he was in town, Stranahan embedded with critics of the refugee program.
They drove him to some of his interviews and to the yogurt factory to shoot drone footage.
Stranahan doesnt get around well on his own in part because he has been mostly blind in one eye since grade school, when a neighborhood kid threw a rock at him, shattering his right optic nerve.
Rather than a round pupil, his is jagged-edged, and so large that it nearly covers his iris.
He shuffles when he walks because of neuropathic foot pain from diabetes, which he regulates by eating a ketogenic diet, usually one meal a day, consisting entirely of protein and fat.
In Twin Falls, he subsisted most days on blackened chicken from Popeyes.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
During the three months he was in Twin Falls, City Council members refused his interview requests, leaving him stuck inside an echo chamber with the activists, which he amplified online.
When I was in Twin Falls, I found myself empathizing: These same activists refused to speak with me.
One of the most outspoken among them is a woman named Julie DeWolfe, who lives atop a grassy hill 20 minutes outside town and who spent significant time with Stranahan.
When I went there to ask for an interview, she came outside with several barking dogs and told me to leave.
The company you work for is not trustworthy, she said.
As the summer came to a close, The Times-News was bombarded with threatening phone calls and email from all over.
After it received a threat that was deemed credible enough to engage the F.B.I., the editor of the paper told Brown and the other reporters to conduct their interviews outside the office and ordered the entire staff to walk in pairs when going out to their cars.
For months, the reporters covered protests around town, which were widely hyped on social media but, for the most part, sparsely attended.
At least once the Police Department deployed plainclothes officers into the crowds, with instructions to look after the journalists.
Later, it turned out that fake Facebook accounts linked to the Russian government helped to spread stories about Twin Falls and even organized one of the rallies there.
The event was also poorly attended but is the first known Russian attempt to spark a demonstration on American soil.
The phone and email attacks continued through the fall and spiked each time a new conspiracy theory was posted online.
One council member told me that she gained 15 pounds from the stress.
At night, Shawn Barigar would lie down with his iPad and spend hours reading stories that called him a crook, a liar or an ISIS sympathizer.
He had to shut down his Twitter account after someone accused him of having been convicted of sexual assault.
Before he could debunk the myth, the post had spread, leaving untold numbers of constituents under the impression that he was a rapist.
He stopped sleeping and struggled to focus at work or to be present with his family.
He and his wife say they bickered all summer.
It was like being in a hole, he told me, his eyes welling up with tears.
It was all-consuming.
Stranahan now works out of a trendy shared workspace in Washington, across the street from the White House.
He quit his job at Breitbart, which he said was being mismanaged in Bannons absence, to host a drive-time FM radio show with Sputnik, a state-run Russian news outlet.
He told me that he jumped at the chance to transition to a Kremlin-funded outfit and, knowing that it would be controversial, spoke to every media outlet that inquired about it, in order to draw even more people to his work.
He expressed no contrition about the reporting he did in Twin Falls, though many of the conclusions that he drew on the radio and online have been debunked.
Still, many of the outlets that covered Twin Falls made only minor tweaks to their stories or did nothing at all.
Many of the falsehoods that were written about the Fawnbrook case still appear at the top of a Google search of the city.
The most transparent course-correction resulted from a lawsuit against Alex Jones, the publisher of InfoWars, for its misleading stories about Chobani.
After initially vowing to fight the yogurt company in court, Jones retracted several stories and issued an apology in order to make a lawsuit go away.
Stranahan said that his editors forced him off the Twin Falls story during the fall and suggested that they had done so under threat from Chobani.
(Breitbart denies this.)
Stranahan and I spoke a handful of times over the course of the last year, each time for several hours.
Talking with him feels like being inside one of his conspiracy theories.
When you ask him a question, he begins to answer and then immediately swerves in a different direction, bouncing like a pinball between topics that barely connect to one another  from the Fawnbrook case to clitorectomies and stoning, then Syrian refugees, then a prominent Wahhabi cleric  and seems to increase in velocity as he ricochets off them.
Its an exhausting exercise, but also a fascinating one.
He seems perpetually on the precipice of pulling the argument together, sparking just enough curiosity that you let him keep going.
Stranahan uses this talent most effectively in his work, painting himself as a champion of people who are understandably uninformed about other cultures and religions based on their own experiences.
Its just easy to brand these people as a bunch of Islamophobic, racist yokels, he told me, with a hint of disgust in his voice.
I just dont like it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Stranahan struck me as passionate about his stories; not about their veracity but about the freedom he and the critics of refugee resettlement should have to speculate as they wanted without being belittled by the fact-mongering mainstream.
When I reached him by phone this June, he told me he was planning to travel back to Idaho for more reporting on Fawnbrook, now that he was no longer constrained by his editors at Breitbart.
He told me that he believed that he had uncovered another dimension of his globalist theory related to Chobanis participation in the federal school-lunch program.
He felt compelled to follow up on the earlier coverage, because he was frustrated that Alex Jones and others were forced to retract their stories and apologize under pressure.
I dont like people getting shut up like that, he said.
Even if their stories have problems, I dont like journalists getting shut down.
I started to ask why anyone should be allowed to publish false information for the express purpose of angering their audience and pushing them further away from those with whom they disagree, but Stranahan cut me off.
Hey, Im walking into the White House right now, he said.
He had just arrived for a press briefing with the presidents spokesman.
Let me call you back.
This April, the boys accused in the Fawnbrook case admitted guilt  the juvenile court equivalent to pleading guilty  and were sentenced in June.
The judge prohibited city officials from commenting on the outcome of the trial, but juvenile-justice experts told me that the boys would most likely be placed on probation and required to attend mandatory therapy to correct their behavior.
Even in Idaho, a state with tough sentencing requirements, the law bars anyone under 10 from being jailed and only allows it in extreme cases for anyone under 12.
Late one Monday night in June I received a phone call from Dalos, the Scanner Man.
He asked if I had heard about the fireworks flying around Twin Falls.
The news of the boys fate had somehow reached the public.
The suspects didnt go to jail or nothing, he said, adding that people in town were irate.
Facebook posts about the story were again flooding his feed.
Theyre blaming it on Muslim law, he said.
One of the articles circulating, from a site called Bare Naked Islam, included a photograph of the judge in the case with a large red arrow pointing toward his head, next to the caption Corrupt Judge.
Another article published the judges home address and phone number, inciting another flood of harassment, a year after the initial onslaught.
Shawn and Camille Barigars bickering has subsided, but they have discovered that they disagree over whether Islamic teachings conflict with American social norms.
I cant take the leap, Shawn told me, that because you are Muslim therefore you are reading the Quran verbatim, and youre going to go out and do genital mutilation.
Camille said she supported the local resettlement program but thought that her husbands unwillingness to even consider cultural differences or acknowledge any nuance was nave.
I think weve got to be careful, she said.
And I dont want to be afraid to talk about it entirely or, like, sound racist.
It is precisely this discomfort that provides an opening for people like Stranahan to dominate the conversation.
Part of the reason a fear of Islam has persisted in Twin Falls is because the local leadership refused to defuse it, according to Matt Christensen, 36, the editor of The Times-News.
While Brown wrote articles that sorted out the truth about the Fawnbrook case, Christensen was publishing commentary that castigated the people who were spreading falsehoods.
He told me that he had closed-door meetings with city officials, in which he asked them to write guest editorials doing the same, but none of them did.
Christensen suspected that they were afraid of one of the most reliable political dangers in the region, the same force that leads would-be Democrats there to register as Republicans: being outflanked on the right is the quickest way to lose your job.
Behind closed doors, they would all tell you they were pro-refugee, and we wanted them to step forward and make that declaration in a public arena, and it just never really happened, he told me.
That was frustrating to us especially at the beginning because it really felt like the newspaper was out there all alone.
He continued: There were days where we felt like, Godammit, what are we doing here?
We write a story and its going to reach 50,000 people.
Breitbart writes a story and its going to reach 2, 3, 4, 5, 10 million people.
What kind of a voice do we have in this debate?
The refugee resettlement center received a dramatic increase in donations from local residents during the last year.
But those in the town who support the program have often been drowned out by the relatively smaller, but louder, group of activists who oppose it.
Brown said he expected to see an anti-Shariah bill introduced in the State Legislature when the next session starts in 2018.
Bills like this, which try to bar Islamic law from being used in American courts, have been introduced in the past two years in Boise but never passed.
He speculated that the momentum of the past year could force a different outcome.
There are a lot of people who feel like society is changing too quickly, like the community is changing too quickly, he told me.
And who view other people not like them or who dont speak their language as a threat or a sign that their culture is going to be weakened.
And they want to do what they can to stop that.
Photo

LOS ANGELES  Quietly, like a mouse on tiptoe, Disney overhauled its retail store at the Northridge Fashion Center mall in late July.
Out went the twisty Pixie Path aisles, the ornate displays, the green walls and the color-changing fiberglass trees.
In came a movie-theater-size screen, a simplified floor plan, white walls and more items for fashion-conscious adults.
What was Disney up to?
As it turns out, the Disney Store here was a prototype, and the company has been monitoring sales and consumer feedback as it prepares to revamp its 340-store chain.
We really want to learn as we go, especially through the holidays, so were going to roll the new look out slowly, Paul Gainer, executive vice president for Disney Stores Worldwide, said in an interview on Monday.
So far, were really thrilled with the results.
The redesign makes Disneys stores a bit more like Disneys theme parks.
For instance, daily parades at Disneyland in California and Walt Disney World in Florida will be streamed live to those colossal video screens.
During the parades, store personnel will put out mats for shoppers to sit on and roll out souvenir carts stocked with cotton candy and light-up Mickey Mouse ears.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The screens could easily be used to stream other events, such as red carpet arrivals for Disney movie premieres.
That kind of programming could bolster foot traffic, and thus sales  while also turning the stores into a more potent promotional platform for Disneys films, television shows and theme parks.
Its a word that has been attached to Ms. Waight Keller, 47, through most of her career, as the Birmingham, England-born designer has methodically climbed the fashion hierarchy: from design director of mens wear at Ralph Lauren to senior designer at Gucci to creative director of Pringle of Scotland to creative director of Chlo to, finally, Givenchy, a brand steeped in the history of French couture and Hollywood, all of it accomplished so unobtrusively no one entirely realized what was happening.
Photo

But that does not mean that on Sunday, when Ms. Waight Kellers first womens and mens collection for Givenchy is unveiled  the last of three big designer debuts taking place this Paris Fashion Week, and potentially the most freighted  she does not have revolution in mind.
I want to build an entirely new story, she said.
I want people to think, that was completely unexpected.
She was talking both about the brand and herself.
WHEN IT WAS FIRST ANNOUNCED that Ms. Waight Keller was taking over at Givenchy after Mr. Tisci resigned earlier in the year, a lot of eyebrows were raised.
Part of it had to do with fashions increasingly short memory (But wait  shes never done mens wear, was a common refrain, even though she had done it for both Ralph Lauren and Pringle).
Part of it had to do with the fact that her success at Chlo over the preceding six years had been built on a soft-focus aesthetic different from the more severely chic lines of Givenchy.
And part of it had to do with the fact that, in an industry that tends to associate oversize personalities with creativity, her reticence had made her easy to overlook.
It was a big, bold choice for them both, said Daniella Vitale, chief executive of Barneys New York.
One not without risk.
Photo

Especially in the wake of Mr. Tisci, an emotive, Instagram-savvy Italian who reinvigorated the brand by crossbreeding its Audrey Hepburn past with his own gothic sensibility and a dose of the street to make it relevant to the Kardashians and Beyonc alike.
He had a different kind of energy, Mr. Fortunato said, which is one way of putting it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

By contrast, when she left Chlo in January, speculation was rife that Ms. Waight Keller wanted to return to England to spend more time with her family.
(If you think that sounds like gender-bias, you are probably right.)
She has three children, 14-year-old identical-twin girls and a 6-year-old son, who live in London with her husband, an architect; she spends Friday to Monday with them and then takes the Eurostar back to Paris.
Ms. Waight Keller rolled her eyes at the suggestion of time out.
Six months of gardening leave was not really something I wanted to contemplate, she said.
Her low-key manner has always masked an ambition that is only now really becoming clear.
Givenchy gives me the opportunity to focus on something the complete opposite of what I have done before, Ms. Waight Keller continued.
Its got a very different undercurrent.
Its really what people dont know about me.
Its a side of her that became apparent when she began talking to Mr. Fortunato about the job, and she presented him (and later Mr. Arnault) with a 150-page book she had created that detailed what she called a 360-degree plan for the brand, including about 50 ready-to-wear sketches and 20 handbag designs.
Photo

She now has the sort of control over the house that a designer such as Alessandro Michele has at Gucci and Hedi Slimane had at Yves Saint Laurent.
But LVMH has historically been reluctant to grant its artistic directors broad oversight, and that was one of the reasons Raf Simons, a much-feted designer at Christian Dior, left that brand in 2015.
Its not just the clothes and the bags and the shoes  and the jewels and the childrens wear and the sunglasses  its also the ad campaigns and the image of the beauty and fragrance lines, and the packaging, the website, store displays and lighting, and celebrity relationships.
She is planning monthly capsule collection drops online  la Supreme.
She is going to bring back the couture runway, which Givenchy discontinued in 2012.
And not just for women  for men, too.
All of which means she is very likely doing the most collections of any designer in Paris, at a time when most of her peers have been very vocal about the need to do less, and think more.
Im quite organized, Ms. Waight Keller said of her management style.
I think process creates structure and structure creates clarity.
Chaos creates neuroses.
LVMH has a lot riding on the idea she is right; the brand now has revenues believed to be approaching 600 million euros ($715 million) annually (LVMHs annual reports do not break out the performance of brands in what it calls the Fashion Group) and, Mr. Arnault said, I think it will grow very fast in the next two years.
He says he thinks it has the potential to reach the size of Dior, which is a member of the billion-euro club.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Clare has a very clear vision, even if she comes across as peaceful, Mr. Fortunato said.
Shes actually quite demanding.
And very driven.
One of her first moves was to sign up the photographer Steven Meisel, to shoot not only her first teaser ad campaign but also her new official portrait.
Its black and white, and she is staring directly at the viewer.
(A famous earlier portrait had her laughing and looking down, face half hidden by her hair).
She is preparing herself for her close up.
Photo

RECENTLY, WANTED POSTERS have popped up around Milan, Paris, London and New York featuring a photo of a glossy black cat with staring eyes, plus the usual tear-off tags with contact information.
If you look closely, they are invitations to register on the Givenchy website for tickets to the spring 2018 show.
Three winners will be chosen; as of Sunday morning, 50,000 had signed up.
I really have no idea what we are going to see, Ken Downing, fashion director of Neiman Marcus, said not long before the show.
Originally, industry speculation centered on the assumption that Ms. Waight Keller, who has a gamin air about her, was going to reorient the brand toward its Hepburn history, an idea she dismissed as a bit obvious.
Rather, what interested her about that relationship was the partnership between a man  Hubert de Givenchy  and a woman.
Its one of the founding myths of the brand, she said, and part of the reason one of her first decisions was to give the mens and womens sides parity: to combine the genders in her shows, her campaigns, her stories.
(Givenchy is also the rare brand where sales are divided equally between the sexes.)
She did go into the archive, and she did spend a lot of time thinking about M. de Givenchy, whom she refers to as Hubert (though they have yet to meet), and she did connect to his shapes from the 1950s and 60s, and yes, there is lace, and, yes, there is a trench.
But the end result is, she said, very graphic, much darker.
She borrowed an animal print, and one of gold lips.
On the runway, expect to see a lot of drama through the shoulder for women and flared legs for men.
Also daywear.
Also bags.
Accessories, and in particular leather goods, are the driver of luxury brands  with one size fits all and highly attractive margins, they can buoy a bottom line.
When it comes to bags, Givenchy has a spotty record but, as it happens, Ms. Waight Keller has a special talent for accessories, Mr. Arnault said.
Its one area she takes very personally.
The new style, which will be introduced on the runway, has been named GV3, in honor of the brands address.
That this might be a focus was fairly predictable.
Otherwise, Pamela Golbin, chief curator of the Muse de la Mode et du Textile in Paris, said she expected a unique vision of the archetypical Parisienne.
Downing summed it up: The only thing I know is: Its not going to be Givenchy as we know it.
The speech was Mr. Obamas third to a financial crowd in the past month  he also spoke to clients of the money-management firm Northern Trust Corporation and the private-equity firm Carlyle Group  and gave some indication of how he has been navigating the moneymaking opportunities of his newly private life.
Since leaving the White House in January, the former president and his wife have reportedly won a $60 million joint book deal, and his speaking fees  including to Cantor  have gone as high as $400,000 per speech.
He has also vacationed on an exclusive island and taken up residence in an $8.1 million home.
That is all in addition to a spate of unpaid speeches, including one to at-risk youths in Chicago, and a separate event Monday for the Beau Biden Foundation, which focuses on protecting children from abuse and was named for the son of Vice President Joe Biden who died of cancer in 2015.
Since leaving office, President Obama has spent his time doing public and private events, both paid and unpaid, that are true to his values and his record, Kevin Lewis, the former presidents spokesman, wrote in an email.
Mr. Lewis added that the paid speeches had helped make it possible for Mr. Obama to contribute $2 million to employment and job-training programs for low-income young people in Chicago.
Mr. Lewis declined to comment on how the president, who has avoided much of the criticism faced by Hillary Clinton and other public officials who made paid speeches to private industry after leaving office, selects his paid engagements.
At the Cantor event, Mr. Obama arrived on stage nearly a minute after the brokerage firms chief executive, Howard Lutnick, introduced him.
Ive got to work on my entrance timing, Mr. Lutnick joked as he waited, and waited, by the microphone.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
After his prepared remarks and a few longer questions, Mr. Obama participated in what Mr. Lutnick called a lightning round.
But Mr. Obama ended up fielding only one inquiry  about technology and government health care costs  and answered it soberly and at length, running out the clock.
Mr. Obama then beseeched the audience of health care business professionals to keep the sick and scared at the core of what they did.
If youre going to make money this way, you better think about it, he said.
Cantor Fitzgerald, which lost more than 600 employees on Sept. 11, 2001, in the attack on the World Trade Center, is not a top-tier player in investment banking.
Leaner and less well-known than Wall Street blue-bloods like Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase, it brokers trades and gives strategic advice to small and midsize corporations.
Health care is one of its specialties.
Still, its crowd on Monday was full of marquee industry names, with representatives from hedge funds like Citadel and Balyasny, investment firms like Bain and Ares, and biotech companies like Amgen.
Most of the attendees were Cantor clients.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Not everyone, however, was laser-focused on the guest of honor.
Before the main event, some attendees made a bet on how late the speech would start  one guessed 20 minutes, another guessed 30.
In one of the venues spillover rooms, where roughly 200 people watched the former president on a video monitor, a man in the back row dozed off while others texted or nibbled on pastrami baguettes.
Last week, Mr. Obama called attempts to undo the Affordable Care Act aggravating at a Gates Foundation event and on Monday he called them a cynical political exercise.
Hours later, the opposition of a key senator appeared to leave the latest repeal bill without the necessary support to pass.
He acknowledged that the current system has problems, including that some states had not expanded Medicaid to the extent allowed by the A.C.A., and that some insurers were not providing coverage to parts of rural states.
The solution to the lack of coverage, he said, was a public fallback plan.
Another problem, Mr. Obama added, was that the current administration has taken steps to make it harder for people to sign up for coverage during this years open enrollment period.
He hinted that helping publicize that period would be a personal priority of his this year.
As a private citizen, Im going to have to help do what I can to help people get that information, he said.
The White House did not comment on Mr. Obamas criticism on Monday evening.
Some audience members said that they were gratified by Mr. Obamas remarks.
The thing that impressed me the most about the discussion today is that he really tried to stay away from the politics, Sara Finan, an investor-relations consultant from Akron, Ohio, said after the event.
He acknowledged the faults of the A.C.A.
But at the same time, he looked at, Lets not try and reinvent the wheel.
Despite a mostly button-down tone, Mr. Obama was not entirely without mirth.
Toward the end of his speech he referred to President Trumps recent tweets aimed at N.F.L.
players.
Our big problem right now is politics, he said.
Cant even get it out of football!
Mr. Tuzman says his ordeal began in September 2015.
He was on a business trip to Bogot and was planning to fly back to Philadelphia days later for Rosh Hashana when, he said, half a dozen Colombian officers surrounded him and told him to go with them.
My heart sank to my stomach because I thought a family member or business partner had been kidnapped and I was being taken to safety, he told me in an interview.
Later, in a side room at the airport, they told me that actually I was being arrested.
I begged to know why.
All they would say was that it was at the direction of the U.S. government.
Mr. Tuzman said he had no idea he had been charged, and, in contrast to many white-collar arrests, the United States government made no attempt to discuss with his lawyer the possibility of Mr. Tuzmans surrendering voluntarily in the United States.
Mr. Tuzman was put in a cell in La Picota, a notorious prison.
It had over a hundred people packed in it, stuffed against the walls and the rails, asking those of us in line for food, water, aspirin, whatever, he said.
The stench of feces and vomit was overwhelming.
There were literally people who had defecated in their pants.
Mr. Tuzman assumed that he would be quickly extradited to the United States.
But he soon found himself in a parallel universe, he said.
In the beginning, every day I thought: Theyre going to let me out tomorrow.
They have to realize this is a mistake.
But weeks went by.
His lawyers asked the United States Embassy to step in, warning that he could be abused or killed.
When Mr. Tuzmans lawyers recommended that he be released into the custody of a United States official and brought home where he could be rearrested, the United States authorities said their hands were tied by legal protocol.
That October, he said, he was raped.
Within an hour, he told his lawyer, Amanda Blaurock of Pedley & Blaurock, about it during an in-person meeting.
She then went to the United States Embassy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

When the Mr. Tuzmans imprisonment in Colombia was finally brought to the attention of a federal judge, Paul G. Gardephe, in the Southern District of New York, Judge Gardephe said he was shocked by the governments unwillingness to step in.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
There is credible evidence here that this man is undergoing significant abuse, to the point that there is reason to be concerned about his life, the judge said.
He also challenged the government to tell me face to face they cant do anything about the conditions this man is in, and that if he has to stay there for nine months, there is nothing they can do about that.
Judge Gardephe lashed out at the prosecutors who recommended that, as an alternative to bringing Mr. Tuzman home, they could help him be moved to another prison, known as Cmbita.
Having sentenced numerous Colombian defendants in this courtroom, and having heard over and over again about the conditions that they were in during the period of time that they were awaiting extradition at Cmbita, the judge said, its shocking to me that the governments solution to the problem would be to transfer him to Cmbita.
Its shocking to me.
In a later hearing, however, Judge Gardephe said: To the extent that Tuzman has been mistreated in Colombia, there is no contention that the U.S. government engineered, arranged for or induced that mistreatment.
Indeed, the evidence before this court is all to the contrary.
Mr. Tuzman was extradited to the United States in July 2016.
Why the prosecutors didnt move more rapidly once he had been arrested  and why they arrested him in Bogot instead of waiting until he came home  isnt entirely clear.
The prosecutors have made the case that he was a flight risk  that he might flee to the United Arab Emirates, where he had family and friends.
Still, he was publicly scheduled to speak at a conference in Florida about a month after his arrest.
And he was not unknown to federal prosecutors.
Mr. Tuzman is a Harvard alumnus and said, I had been at my Harvard class reunion in Boston a few months before my arrest, and bumped into Preet Bharara, who was then the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York.
They have a mutual friend.
Mr. Tuzman is home in New York awaiting his trial.
But he said he rarely forgets what happened after the rape: A few days after the assault, I was put on what they call a prison trial, where the guards purposefully leave their lookout stations and go away.
I was put on a table and accused of being a snitch for reporting what had happened to me.
Thats the worst thing you can be accused of in prison.
My knees were shaking.
I thought it was the end of my life.
Im only alive now because I hadnt given up their names.
It took some cajoling to get Mr. Tuzman to open up.
It has taken me a very long time to feel prepared to talk about some of this, he said.
You have to get past fear of reprisals, self-hate, all this other stuff that goes through your head.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Theres a code of silence on this kind of prison assault, which was reinforced by an official at the U.S. Embassy who visited me in La Picota and told me things could get worse for me if I spoke to the press.
But at some point, I guess, I needed to find meaning in all of this.
The trial he faces in New York is no small matter.
A jury will decide his case.
But he said he needed to speak out about what had happened to him already.
The U.S. effectively uses the extradition system and foreign prisons like those in Colombia as black sites, even for holding American citizens, he said.
I simply cannot understand why the United States would let one of its own citizens be subjected to this, and I want to help ensure it never happens again.
In recent years, Walmart has gotten the jump on Target by being the first to announce a series of base pay hikes.
In February 2015, Walmart said it would raise base wages for 500,000 workers to at least $9 an hour, with an increase to $10 an hour in 2016.
That year, Walmart also gave raises to more than 1.2 million hourly workers, which pushed the average hourly full-time store employee up to $13.38 an hour.
Target followed suit with its own wage increases in 2015 and 2016, promising a $10-an-hour base last year.
Target has always offered market competitive wages to our team members, Brian Cornell, Targets chief executive, said in a statement announcing the new base rate.
With this latest commitment, well be providing even more meaningful pay.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
On Monday, a Walmart spokesman said the company is always reviewing where its stands in terms of pay.
Were committed to providing pay and training for our associates that is competitive in the market, said the spokesman, Kory Lundberg.
Targets $11-an-hour base pay exceeds the minimum wage in 48 states and matches the pay floor set by Massachusetts and Washington State, two of the 19 states that raised their minimum wages at the start of the year.
It far exceeds the federal base, which has remained at $7.25 an hour since 2009.
Retail is the largest private-sector employer in the United States, according to the National Retail Federation.
Cashiers receive a median hourly wage of $9.40, while sales associates receive $9.77 and store managers are paid $14.86, according to compensation tracker PayScale.
But Target, like many retailers, is struggling to adapt to e-commerce and pricing pressures.
Earlier this month, the company said it would cut prices on thousands of products, stoking concerns from investors.
The Minneapolis-based chain, which has been trying to clean up after a data breach in 2013 that compromised the data of millions of customers, agreed in May to pay $18.5 million to 47 states and the District of Columbia in a settlement.
Targets stock price is down 16 percent this year.
Target is probably responding in part to ever-present Help Wanted signs as it tries to recruit and retain workers, said John W. Budd, a professor at the University of Minnesotas Carlson School of Management.
But the company could also be trying to convince consumers that it is a good corporate citizen before lawmakers try to push up the timeline for minimum wage increases.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I wonder whether a small part of this is to shift the narrative, to wrest back control of the agenda, before negative publicity causes the public to clamor for greater legislative action, he said.
"After all, businesses prefer to set their own terms and conditions of employment.
Photo

HOUSTON  Exxon Mobil announced a program on Monday to reduce emissions of methane, a powerful greenhouse gas, from its oil and natural gas production and pipeline operations across the United States.
Methane has many sources, including decomposing landfills and ranch operations.
But the oil and gas industry is most likely the biggest emitter of leaked methane, a greenhouse gas that traps more than 80 times as much heat within the atmosphere as carbon dioxide over a 20-year period, though it dissipates more quickly.
Exxon Mobil is the nations biggest producer of natural gas, so its program to make repairs, monitor operations for leaks and replace leaky equipment may serve as an example for the industry.
Several large gas producers are moving forward with methane control programs, but others have resisted the effort as too burdensome.
Sara Ortwein, president of Exxon Mobils gas subsidiary XTO Energy, said in a statement that the goal of the Exxon program was to continually reduce methane emissions.
She added that the company would look to develop and deploy new, more efficient technologies.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Cutting emissions from leaks is important in bolstering the reputation of natural gas as a clean fuel compared with coal.
By some estimates, the American energy industry lets enough natural gas escape each year to meet the heating and cooking needs of about seven million homes.
Over two decades, that runaway gas has about the same impact on global warming as 240 coal-fired power plants, according to the Environmental Defense Fund.
Once you start politicizing some of these more technocratic disputes, it can escalate rapidly, he said.
Boeings complaint alleges that substantial support from the Canadian government has allowed Bombardier to sell its CSeries aircraft at absurdly low prices in the United States, undercutting a valuable market for Boeing.
Photo

Bombardier has argued that Boeing is also a recipient of substantial government funding and that pricing new models more cheaply is a standard industry practice.
In a statement last week, Bombardier called Boeings complaints pure hypocrisy.
Boeing is the largest beneficiary of the United States Export-Import Bank, which subsidizes American companies that send goods abroad.
It has sparred at the World Trade Organization for over a decade with European rival Airbus over allegations that its subsidies violate the groups rules.
The perception in Canada is that Boeing is using U.S. trade law as a commercial weapon, and that its pretty hypocritical coming from a company that receives billions and billions of U.S. taxpayer subsidies, said Roland Paris, a professor of international affairs at the University of Ottawa.
The White House declined to comment on Boeings case.
The dispute has unfolded against a backdrop of rising trade tensions between the United States and its closest allies, especially Canada.
While Mr. Trump focused on Mexicos trade practices during the presidential campaign, America has sparred with Canadian officials more often since his inauguration.
The president has already traded barbs with Mr. Trudeau, criticizing Canada over what American farmers and companies have called illegal subsidies of dairy and lumber exports to the United States.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This week, officials from Canada, Mexico and the United States are meeting in Ottawa to hammer out some controversial elements of the North American Free Trade Agreement, including disputes between America and its neighbor to the north.
In fact, some of the most intractable areas in the ongoing negotiations over Nafta are with Canada  like the United States effort to get rid of a particular type of trade panel that has often ruled in favor of the Canadian lumber industry.
Mr. Trumps public bullying of corporations, individuals and others with whom he disagrees is prompting some foreign counterparts to dispense with the diplomatic niceties that have governed international relations for decades.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In a joint news conference with Mrs. May on Sept. 18, Mr. Trudeau threatened to abandon a planned purchase of military aircraft from Boeing unless the case against Bombardier was dropped.
We have obviously been looking at the Super Hornet aircraft from Boeing as a potential significant procurement of our new fighter jets, the Canadian prime minister said.
But we wont do business with a company thats busy trying to sue us and put our aerospace workers out of business.
Mrs. May also raised the issue with Mr. Trump in a phone call on Sept. 5, and again on the sidelines of the United National General Assembly on Wednesday, according to the British Embassy.
Analysts say Mrs. Mays governing coalition in the United Kingdom hinges on the cooperation of representatives from Northern Ireland, where the wings for Bombardiers CSeries aircraft are manufactured.
The Commerce Departments ruling will be the first in a series of decisions about what, if any, level of duties to impose on Bombardier planes coming across the border.
The International Trade Commission, an American government agency that reviews unfair trade practices, could ultimately uphold or eliminate the Commerce Department duties in a final ruling early next year.
Bombardier or the Canadian government could also eventually challenge a ruling against Bombardier in a number of venues, including at the World Trade Organization.
But, in the meantime, customs officials would start collecting duties on any planes that cross the border, most likely chilling Bombardier sales and potentially prompting retaliation against Boeing.
While Boeing argues that the Bombardier plane competes directly with Boeings American-made 737-700 and 737 MAX 7 planes, Bombardier says Boeing no longer makes aircraft as small as the CSeries.
Delta Air Lines, which ordered 75 of Bombardiers smaller CSeries planes last year, said Boeing offered no viable alternative.
Boeing simply was not in the mix, Greg May, a senior vice president at Delta, told the International Trade Commission.
They did not have a plane that satisfied our mission profile and needs.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Foreign leaders have asked Mr. Trump to intervene in this process.
But beyond persuading Boeing to withdraw its complaint, it is questionable how much influence Mr. Trump could have over a fairly bureaucratic process, Mr. Tucker said.
Unlike a recent ruling on solar tariffs, the case does not officially go to the president for a decision.
Photo

The founder of Tales of the Cocktail, the New Orleans convention that has become a must-attend annual town hall for the drinks business, announced Saturday that she would step down, months after a controversial costumed ride in a Mardi Gras parade.
Our goal has always been to create something lasting that can benefit the industry and the people of New Orleans well beyond our years.
This allows that to continue, said Ann R. Tuennerman in her resignation statement.
Ms. Tuennerman founded Tales 15 years ago, later running it with her husband, Paul, and the event has grown from a tiny gathering of cocktail aficionados to a massive international enterprise with corporate liquor sponsorships.
Both of them resigned over the weekend.
A string of events led to the resignations.
It began in March, when the Tuennermans, who are white, were denounced after posting a Facebook Live video of Ms. Tuennerman wearing blackface for the Zulu Mardi Gras parade, with a caption that included what was intended as a joking reference to blackface.
The Zulu Social Aid and Pleasure Club is one of the oldest African-American social clubs in New Orleans, and during the annual Carnival parade, many of its members and float riders, both black and white, wear blackface, wigs and grass skirts.
The Facebook post traveled far beyond New Orleans at a time when the cocktail community was already grappling with issues of diversity and sexism within the industry.
Mr. Tuennerman left his position as chief business officer, and a diversity council was formed, made up of minority and female members from the bar world.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But late last week, Neat Pour, a new industry news site, reported that Mr. Tuennerman would return to the organization.
Colin Asare-Appiah  a chairman of the diversity council and, as a former bartender and current brand ambassador with Bacardi, a well-known figure in bar circles  announced he was resigning from the council.
Other members also resigned, while some chose to remain.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Ann made the independent decision to recently invite Paul Tuennerman back into the Tales organization, without consulting or advising the diversity council, Mr. Asare-Appiah wrote in a Facebook post.
In doing so, her action has undermined the councils very existence.
The Tuennermans announced on Saturday that they would relinquish their producing roles, handing over the reins to Melissa Young, the director of operations.
It was unclear whether the Tuennermans had divested themselves from their company MOJO 911, which produces Tales of the Cocktail.
Researchers generated a list of hateful terms used on the two forums, and tracked the use of those terms across Reddit.
They also compared the activity of users who posted hateful terms before the bans with those users activity after, to determine whether they had infiltrated other Reddit forums.
The goal was to figure out what happened when these toxic communities were shut down.
Did the amount of hateful language on Reddit decrease?
Did users of hateful forums migrate to other parts of the site?
Did any of them change their behavior as a result of the bans?
The study found that, to a large extent, the bans worked.
Some users who had posted offensive material on the forums that were shut down stopped using Reddit entirely.
Of those who continued to use the site, many migrated to other forums, but they did not bring significant amounts of toxic speech with them, and the forums they moved to did not become more hateful as a result of their presence.
Over all, the users who stayed on Reddit after the bans took effect decreased their use of hate speech by more than 80 percent.
By shutting down these echo chambers of hate, Reddit caused the people participating to either leave the site or dramatically change their linguistic behavior, the researchers wrote.
In an interview, two of the researchers who led the study told me that although they had only examined Reddit, their findings might be applicable to social networks like Facebook and Twitter, which tend to enforce their rules against individuals, rather than groups.
They also tend to issue bans in a defensive, case-by-case manner, often in response to user-generated reports of bad behavior.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But the results of the study suggest that proactively shutting down nodes where hateful activity is concentrated may be more effective.
Banning places where people congregate to engage in certain behaviors makes it harder for them to do so, said Eshwar Chandrasekharan, a doctoral student at Georgia Tech and the studys lead author.
Eric Gilbert, an associate professor at the University of Michigan and one of the researchers involved in the study, said that Reddits approach worked because it had a clear set of targets.
They didnt ban people, he said.
They didnt ban words.
They banned the spaces where those words were likely to be written down.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This is, of course, a small case study  two Reddit forums out of millions of online spaces where antisocial behavior occurs  and methods for quantifying hate speech are still imperfect.
(This studys approach would have flagged one user chastising another for using a racist slur as hateful speech, if the slur were repeated as part of the chastising, for example.)
The study also did not account for users who left Reddit altogether, some of whom may have continued to use hate speech elsewhere online.
Other online communities have had success with a broad-based approach to moderating hate speech.
Discord, a private chat app, banned several large right-wing political chat rooms from its platform this year, after some of the speech turned hateful and violent.
The bans did not entirely end hate speech on Discord, but they did break up these communities and made it harder for trolls to find and talk with one another.
There is no guarantee that a similar approach would work on a larger network.
And there are risks to employing aggressive moderation tactics.
Some platforms, such as YouTube, have been criticized when their hate speech filters have wrongly targeted videos posted by lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender creators.
Twitters banning of a number of alt-right activists en masse last year prompted a right-wing backlash.
And Facebooks security chief, who said last month that the social network shut down more than a million accounts every day, has also said that policing hate speech more aggressively would increase the number of false positives, or posts wrongly flagged as offensive.
Social networks are increasingly feeling pressure to address hateful speech, not just for the sake of users but in response to legal and political challenges.
German authorities, for example, have threatened to fine social networks, including Facebook and Twitter, up to 50 million euros, or $53 million, for failing to remove harmful content in a timely manner.
As these platforms strategize about how to take on hate speech, it would be smart to study the geography of their networks  which groups, pages and subcommunities tend to encourage this behavior  and the effect of closing those spaces, even without a specific violation or report of abusive speech.
It might seem odd to focus on a space, rather than on a person or an act.
But as the Reddit example shows, the broadest approach is sometimes the right one.
Showcase Cinemas, with 29 cinemas in six states including the one in Connecticut, is not alone.
AMC Cinemas, with its purchase of Carmike Cinemas in late 2016, offers meetings in 660 theaters.
AMC and Regal Entertainment Group, with over 560 theaters in 43 states, have dedicated event-planning staffs.
Regal said the number of events it hosted had increased to 11,000 in 2016 from about 5,000 in 2011.
The theaters are used by nonprofit groups and for church services as well as business meetings.
By using technology, multiple locations can provide an identical experience.
In February, Bruce Reid, while working at Mills James, a media production company in Columbus, Ohio, coordinated a meeting for a major retailer in 22 movie theaters across the country.
Allowing for changes in time zones, half were used one day, the remainder the next.
Photo

Mr. Reid, who is now an independent consultant, said he saw social media as influencing where to hold an event.
How social media depicts travel is making travel less attractive and something we dont want to go out of our way to do anymore, he said.
And from the theaters perspective, the meetings and gatherings are providing additional revenue.
Because the theater owners are already paying rent, real estate taxes, utilities, payroll, etc., the incremental revenue from meetings is highly profitable because only the incremental costs are measured relative to the meeting revenue, Bjorn Hanson, a clinical professor of hospitality and tourism at New York University, said in an email.
Smaller chains, like Alamo Drafthouse (29 theaters) and AFI Cinemas (three theaters), also court gatherings.
At Alamo Drafthouse, food is served directly to a theatergoers seat.
Customers have a choice of craft cocktails and craft beers.
Kimberly Sandel, manager of private and community events at the Austin Drafthouse Cinema, said companies use the theater as a recruiting tool.
It sends a message, she said, Look at how cool and fun we are.
AFI Silver Theater and Cultural Center in Silver Spring, Md., has made a virtue of the high-definition digital cinema projection in its Art Deco theater.
Physicians and residents attending the American Institute for Radiologic Pathology, a program of the American College of Radiology, can use the projector to study slides of diseases.
The physicians occupy the theater five times a year for four weeks at a time, according to Tiffany Graham-Golden, director of marketing and events for the theater.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

LeeAnn Downey, the chief administrative officer at Bellco Credit Union in Denver, said the company used to hold its annual meeting for 300 to 400 employees after work at a local hotel.
The audiovisual was always a problem, she said, and attendees had trouble seeing the presentation.
For the last two years, the company has gone to a local multiplex for a breakfast meeting on Columbus Day, when branches are closed.
There is boxed catering; the theater provides coffee.
Photo

She said the big draw at the mandatory meeting is the technology and screen visibility.
During presentations, quizzes appear on the screen.
When a speaker from the National Credit Union Foundation in Madison, Wis., asked what percentage of Americans lived from paycheck to paycheck, participants could check answers they keyed in on their mobile devices with the actual answer on the screen.
(The answer is nearly half.)
Ms. Downey said the theater rental is probably a little cheaper than the hotel, but not a lot.
Conference room rental fees and audiovisual requirements cost a couple of thousand dollars at a hotel, she said.
At a movie theater, those fees are included in the rental.
Christina Panos, chief marketing officer at the Corcoran Group, a real estate company with offices in New York, the Hamptons and Florida, said the company chose the Ziegfeld Theater (now closed) to present a website redesign in November 2012.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The 900 sales agents came came to theater expecting entertainment, she said, not to be focused on their BlackBerries, the prevailing technology at the time.
The theater setting provided additional motivation.
Its been home to amazing entertainment, she said.
While movie theaters are gaining acceptance among meeting planners, they probably will not replace traditional meeting spaces.
Mark Cooper, the chief executive of the International Association of Conference Centers, said in an email: The use of unusual venues for events is not new, but also often offers an environment that has a novelty appeal but lacking the ideal facilities (acoustics, lighting, furniture and technology) required for effective meetings and conferences.
They are used more for evening corporate events rather than serious meetings and conferences in my experience.
But Mr. Jouaneh, the American Express Meetings and Events executive, said technology was transforming meetings, allowing planners to adjust content.
And he said using theaters allows for a hybrid approach, with a combination of face-to-face meetings and extending meetings to a broader virtual audience.
For Ms. Downey, there may be another reason for the popularity of movie theaters among employees.
She said she had received high praise both for the central location and the ease of parking.
Parking downtown for the hotel meetings was a bear and expensive, she said.
Photo

In its pursuit of growth, Unilever is moving away from mayonnaise and toward makeup.
The latest sign of the companys shift from stalwart products came Monday, when Unilever announced plans to buy Carver Korea, an Asian skin care specialist, for 2.27 billion euros, or $2.7 billion.
The deal also highlights how aggressively the British-Dutch conglomerate is pushing to expand in Asia, where the skin care market has been growing quickly.
By Unilevers estimates, South Korea is the fourth-biggest skin care market in the world.
And the countrys beauty sales could reach as much as $13 billion in sales this year, according to the research company Mintel.
Perhaps more important, Korean beauty products have growing fan bases in other major markets like China and Japan.
Unilever struck its acquisition despite the geopolitical frost that has descended onto the relationship between Beijing and Seoul.
Some Korean skin care manufacturers have suffered from Chinas halting group tours into South Korea, amid anger over that countrys deploying an antimissile shield to guard against North Korea.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Within the Asian beauty products industry, Carver has become one of the most popular manufacturers around.
Its A.H.C.
line of products stretches from moisturizers to eye creams to sunblock.
Photo

It is not just any woman who can knock Taylor Swift from No.
But Cardi B, whose Bodak Yellow (Money Moves) ascends to the top of the Billboard Hot 100 chart this week, is no ordinary woman.
A former stripper who grew up in the Bronx, she became an Instagram celebrity and star on Love & Hip Hop: New York with bawdy talk and lots of wigs.
Bodak Yellow (in which she raps, I dont dance now, I make money moves) has been shooting fast up the chart this summer, and on the latest edition it goes to No.
1, bumping Ms. Swifts Look What You Made Me Do to third place after three weeks at the top.
(Post Malones Rockstar is No.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Louder Newsletter Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Bodak Yellow (Money Moves) marks the first chart-topper by a solo female rapper in nearly two decades, since Lauryn Hills Doo Wop (That Thing) in 1998.
Cardi Bs label, Atlantic Records, celebrated the milestone on Monday afternoon in Manhattan with a Champagne toast and a cake modeled after a box of Christian Louboutin high heels (referred to in the song as red bottoms, or bloody shoes).
In brief remarks to the crowd, Cardi B noted the grass-roots, viral nature of the songs rise, thanking her friends and family for promoting it on social media.
I never asked them, they just did it voluntarily, every day harassing their followers like, Make sure you download and stream Bodak Yellow  and look what you made me do, she said, breaking into a good-natured rendition of Ms. Swifts hit.
Also this week, Foo Fighters clinched the No.
1 album spot for a second time with Concrete and Gold (RCA), the bands ninth studio release, which opened at No.
1 with 120,000 sales and 9.3 million streams, according to Nielsen.
The rapper Lil Uzi Vert rose two spots to No.
2 with Luv Is Rage 2, and the country singer Thomas Rhetts Life Changes, last weeks top seller, fell to No.
Kendrick Lamar is in fourth place, XXXTentacion is No.
5 and Khalid is No 6.
But perhaps the biggest news in the Top 10 is from BTS, a seven-piece boy band from South Korea, whose EP Love Yourself: Her opened at No.
7, the highest chart position ever for a K-pop group.
The album had 18,000 sales and 14.5 million streams.
Facebook declined to comment, following past practice when asked about WhatsApps difficulties in China.
Lokman Tsui, an internet communications specialist at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, said that WhatsApp seemed to have been severely disrupted starting on Sunday.
But he said that some WhatsApp users might still be able to use the service.
The Chinese authorities have a history of mostly, but not entirely, blocking internet services, as well as slowing them down so much that they become useless.
The censorship has prompted many in China to switch to communications methods that function smoothly and quickly but that are easily monitored by the Chinese authorities, like the WeChat app of the Chinese internet company Tencent, which is based in Shenzhen.
If youre only allowed to drive one mile per hour, youre not going to drive on that road, even if its not technically blocked, Mr. Tsui said.
The disruption of WhatsApp comes as Beijing prepares for the Communist Partys congress, which starts Oct. 18.
Held once every five years, the congress chooses the partys leadership, which in turn runs the country.
Next months meeting is expected to reconfirm President Xi Jinpings nearly absolute grip on power, but considerable uncertainty remains over who will join him on the Standing Committee of the Politburo, the partys highest-ranking group.
Over the past several years, China has not only stepped up censorship but also closed numerous churches and jailed large numbers of human rights activists, lawyers and advocates for ethnic minorities.
The shutdown of WhatsApp prompted considerable dismay on Chinese social media.
Losing contact with my clients, forced back to the age of telephone and email for work now, one user complained on Weibo, a Twitter-like microblogging site.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Even WhatsApp is blocked now?
Im going to be out of business soon, another Chinese social media user said on Weibo.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In China, even the use of email is fading as residents embrace the convenience of WeChat.
The messaging service, which has 963 million active users, bears some similarities to WhatsApp but has a wider array of features and one crucial difference: close ties to the government.
This month, WeChat sent a notice to users reminding them that it complied with official requests for information.
When China joined the World Trade Organization in 2001, it agreed to open online data services and other enhanced telecommunications services to international competition.
But it obtained the assent of other W.T.O.
members to retain restrictions on the media.
Technology multinationals, heavily dependent on the Chinese market, have been reluctant to accuse Beijing of falling short of its W.T.O.
commitments.
The Office of the United States Trade Representative has opened a formal investigation into whether China is violating the intellectual property of American companies, but it has released few details.
The trade office has not said whether the inquiry will include the blocking of products that rely on American intellectual property, or whether it will focus more narrowly on cases in which China has allegedly purloined or otherwise copied it.
WhatsApp has a strong reputation among cryptographers for security, which may have been what drew the attention of Chinese censors.
The app provides so-called end-to-end encryption, which effectively means that even Facebook does not know what is being said in the text, voice and video conversations passing through its servers.
WhatsApps video, file sharing and other advanced features rely partly on broadly used internet data transfer protocols, and were disrupted over the summer.
But its text messaging function relies on a different, heavily encrypted method for moving data that has seldom been used by companies.
The latest disruption of the WhatsApp messaging system suggests that Chinas censorship apparatus may have figured out how to target the more uncommon and heavily encrypted data transport protocol as well, Mr. Kobeissi said.
Other services provided by American technology companies are available in mainland China.
The country tolerates Microsofts Skype service for phone calls, which does not provide end-to-end encryption and as a result is easier for governments to monitor.
Beijing also allows Apples FaceTime service, which has end-to-end encryption but does not have a WhatsApp-like feature allowing users to exchange secret codes  letting WhatsApp users combat what are known as man in the middle attacks.
By blocking the heavily encrypted WhatsApp service while making less secure applications like WeChat available to the public, the Chinese government has herded its internet users toward methods of communication that it can reliably monitor.
Residents of mainland China can still use services like WhatsApp if they first connect to virtual private networks that provide them with communications channels to servers outside the Chinese mainland.
But the government has also been cracking down on virtual private networks in recent months  and even when those networks appear to be working, they sometimes do not allow access to services that the government is particularly targeting.
A big reason for the decline: Unemployed men are less likely to be seen as marriage material.
Women dont want to take a risk on somebody whos not going to be able to provide anything, said Sharon Sassler, a sociologist at Cornell who published Cohabitation Nation: Gender, Class, and the Remaking of Relationships with Amanda Jayne Miller last month.
As marriage has declined, though, childbearing has not, which means that more children are living in families without two parents and the resources they bring.
The sharpest distinction in American family life is between people with a bachelors or not, said Andrew Cherlin, a sociologist at Johns Hopkins and author of Labors Love Lost: The Rise and Fall of the Working-Class Family in America.
Just over half of adolescents in poor and working-class homes live with both their biological parents, compared with 77 percent in middle- and upper-class homes, according to the research brief, by W. Bradford Wilcox and Wendy Wang of the Institute for Family Studies.
Thirty-six percent of children born to a working-class mother are born out of wedlock, versus 13 percent of those born to middle- and upper-class mothers.
The research brief defined working class as adults with an adjusted family income between the 20th and 50th percentiles, with high school diplomas but not bachelors degrees.
Poor is defined as those below the 20th percentile or without high school diplomas, and the middle and upper class as those above the 50th percentile or with college degrees.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Americans across the income spectrum still highly value marriage, sociologists have found.
But while it used to be a marker of adulthood, now it is something more wait to do until the other pieces of adulthood are in place  especially financial stability.
For people with less education and lower earnings, that might never happen.
College graduates are more likely to plot their lives methodically  vetting people they date until theyre sure they want to move in with them, and using birth control to delay childbirth until their careers are underway.
Less educated people are more likely to move in with boyfriends or girlfriends in a matter of months, and to get pregnant at a younger age and before marriage.
This can make financial and family stability harder to achieve later on.
It starts with moving in together quickly, for economic exigency reasons as opposed to relationship reasons, Ms. Sassler said.
Then struggling with making ends meet and trying to manage this with a partner just elevates the challenges.
Evidence shows that the struggles of men without college degrees in recent years have led to a decline in marriage.
It has been particularly acute in regions where well-paying jobs in male-dominated fields have disappeared because of automation and trade.
In a working paper published in July, three economists studied how the decline in manufacturing jobs from 1990 to 2014, across industries and regions, contributed to the rapid, simultaneous decline of traditional household structures.
Labor market changes made men less marriageable, they concluded.
There were fewer available men, because unemployment was associated with a rise in incarceration or mortality from drugs and alcohol.
The men who were left were less desirable, because they lacked income and were more likely to drink to excess or use drugs.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Researchers found a corresponding increase in births to unmarried mothers.
The decline in marriage was not offset by more couples living together.
A bad economy lowers the cost of having bad values  substance abuse, engaging in crime, not looking for a job right away, said Gordon Hanson, an economist at the University of California, San Diego, who wrote the paper with David Autor of M.I.T.
and David Dorn of the University of Zurich.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Never-married adults cite financial instability as a major reason for being single, especially those who are low-income or under 30, according to a new Pew Research Center survey.
Most men feel its important for a husband to be a financial provider, especially men without college degrees, according to another new Pew survey.
Women, meanwhile, have learned from watching a generation of divorce that they need to be able to support themselves.
And many working-class women arent interested in taking responsibility for a man without a job.
They say, If hes not offering money or assets, why make it legal?
said June Carbone, a law professor at the University of Minnesota and the author with Naomi Cahn of Marriage Markets: How Inequality Is Remaking the American Family.
While researchers say its stability, not a marriage license, that matters for children, American couples who live together but dont marry are generally less likely to stay committed.
When thinking about how to make families more stable, researchers debate whether the decline in marriage is an economic issue or a cultural one.
Those on the left usually say its economic  and could be reversed if there were more and better jobs for men without college degrees.
Those on the right are more likely to say its because of a deterioration of cultural values.
In reality, economics and culture both play a role, and influence each other, social scientists say.
When well-paying jobs became scarce for less educated men, they became less likely to marry.
As a result, the culture changed: Marriage was no longer the norm, and out-of-wedlock childbirth was accepted.
Even if jobs returned, an increase in marriage wouldnt necessarily immediately follow.
Economists often downplay cultural factors, Mr. Hanson said.
We think about marriage in a laboratory setting, and ignore the role of churches and bowling leagues and community organizations, he said.
When you have job decline in a big way, that fabric unravels.
So even if you bring the jobs back, once the damage is done, it might take a while to repair.
If economics and culture are linked, then policy ideas aimed at creating more stability for children would ideally address both.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Social scientists suggest more routes to good jobs, like through community colleges or apprenticeships.
More affordable housing for young people would help, so they dont move in together simply from economic necessity.
Inexpensive and accessible contraception would help, too.
Some have suggested expanding the child tax credit, and removing the marriage penalty for benefits like the earned-income tax credit.
Changing culture is harder: Government marriage promotion programs havent worked well, for example.
Yet its clear from research that if relationships progressed more slowly, and childbirth came later, families would be more stable.
People with college degrees seem to operate with more of a long-term perspective, social scientists say.
They are more likely to take on family responsibilities slowly, and they often benefit from parental resources to do so  like help paying for education, birth control or rent to live on their own.
In turn, the young adults prioritize waiting to have children until they are more able to give their children similar opportunities.
The cultural reinforcement, people relying on contraception and abortion, reinforces a norm, that you dont have the kid with the wrong guy, Ms. Carbone said.
Mr. Wilcox suggests a bigger emphasis in high schools and pop culture on whats known as the success sequence: degree, job, marriage, baby.
The idea is that if people follow that sequence, their odds of landing in poverty are much lower, he said.
Obviously I am pleased that he has acknowledged the issues that Uber faces in London, Mr. Khan said in a statement.
Even though there is a legal process in place, I have asked TfL to make themselves available to meet with him, he added, using the abbreviation for the transit agency.
Mr. Khan had said on BBC Radio earlier that Uber was not playing by the rules and had made aggressive threats to take Londons transport authorities to court.
You cant have it both ways  on the one hand acting in an aggressive manner and threatening all sorts of things, on the other hand brief to journalists that they want to do a deal with TfL, he said.
Fred Jones, a senior executive for Uber in Britain, told BBC radio that Uber was eager to meet with London travel authorities and that the company was not clear about the issues the transit agency had raised.
In its decision on Friday, the agency cited problems with the companys approach to background checks and to reporting criminal offenses.
Providing an innovative service is not an excuse for not following the rules, Mr. Khan said in a statement on Friday.
I have every sympathy with Uber drivers and customers affected by this decision, but their anger really should be directed at Uber, Mr. Khan added.
They have let down their drivers and customers by failing, in the view of TfL, to act as a fit and proper operator.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The decision was divisive, winning praise from unions and the drivers of Londons iconic black cabs, who view Uber as a threat to their business.
A petition started by Uber, which criticizes the move, has received the support of more than 750,000 people.
In it, the company accused Transport for London of wanting to restrict consumer choice and making a decision that would affect the lives of hard-working drivers.
Uber will face more scrutiny of its working model in Britain on Wednesday, when a court will hear its appeal against a case it lost in October.
A judge had ruled then that Uber drivers should be classified as employees and should be treated as such.
Uber says its drivers prefer to be self-employed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

If upheld, the judgment would drastically change the dynamics of the so-called gig economy in Britain, forcing companies like Uber to provide workers with the payment, protections and benefits to which full employees are entitled, rather than treating them as contractors.
Calculating Fallout from the German Elections

Angela Merkel won her fourth term as chancellor.
But the electoral showing of a far-right party, Alternative for Germany, dimmed her victory  and knocked down the euros value this morning.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the DealBook Newsletter Every weekday, twice a day, get the news driving the markets and the latest on mergers and acquisitions.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The result is expected to lead to a tougher line on fiscal discipline in the eurozone, pushing up yields on government bonds in places like Spain and Italy, according to The Financial Timess Michael Hunter.
But some expect the weakness of the euro to be short term, Reuters Saikat Chatterjee reports:

The impact is limited, as the German election results is more of a domestic political story for now rather than a regional European trend, and the euro will be more sensitive to any shift in direction from the European Central Bank policy, said Viraj Patel, an FX strategist at ING Bank in London.
What to Look Out For

Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, is to give a monetary policy update at the European Parliament on Monday.
Uber Grapples With Being Banned From London

Uber said on Monday that it was unclear why Londons travel authorities had decided not to renew its license.
Reuters reports:

Sitting down with TfL (Transport for London) representatives as soon as possible would be the most helpful thing to really understand their concerns to work out what they are, Ubers U.K. Head of Cities Fred Jones told BBC radio.
Its just not clear for us what their concerns might be.
Ubers chief executive, Dara Khosrowshahi, took the moment to engage in some self-reflection, according to Recodes Johana Bhuiyan:

Irrespective of whether we did everything that is being said about us in London today (and to be clear, I dont think we did), it really matters what people think of us, especially in a global business like ours, where actions in one part of the world can have serious consequences in another.
Regulator Wants More Self-Reporting From Finance

In the Obama administration, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission was one of the toughest financial regulators around.
Under President Trump, its adopting a new strategy.
The Timess David Enrich obtained a preview of a forthcoming speech by the commissions director of enforcement, James McDonald:

We also recognize that no matter how much corporate leaders may want to foster compliance within the company, when they detect misconduct their decision whether to voluntarily report it often comes down to their perception of whether theyll be treated fairly.
The Context

Heres how The Times described the regulators former chief Gary Gensler in 2014:

But even as Mr. Genslers aggressive streak thrust the once-backwater agency into the front lines of reform, it also maddened colleagues and complicated his legacy.
And now that his tenure is ending on Friday, the agency has reached an inflection point, prompting Wall Street to hope for a friendlier regulator.
More Blowback for Facebook

Is it time for Facebook to step up and be regulated?
Antonio Garca Martnez, a former employee, writes in Wired: The company needs to put its big boy pants and assume its place on the world stage.
Meanwhile, The Washington Post reports that Mark Zuckerberg received a high-level warning about political interference last year:

Huddled in a private room on the sidelines of a meeting of world leaders in Lima, Peru, two months before Trumps inauguration, Obama made a personal appeal to Zuckerberg to take the threat of fake news and political disinformation seriously.
Unless Facebook and the government did more to address the threat, Obama warned, it would only get worse in the next presidential race.
Related Reading

 Maureen Dowd wonders about automation after Sheryl Sandberg apologized for ad-buying tools that enabled advertisers to direct pitches of people who expressed interest in topics like why jews ruin the world.
Facebook dropped a proposal to reclassify its stock, a move that would have solidified Mr. Zuckerbergs control over the social network, in a victory for shareholders in a class-action lawsuit.
The Men in Tech Who Think Gender Equality Has Gone Too Far

James Altizer, an engineer at the chip maker Nvidia who leads a group called Bay Area Fathers Rights, to The Timess Nellie Bowles:

Its a witch hunt, he said in a phone interview, contending men are being fired by dangerous human resources departments.
Im sitting in a soundproof booth right now because Im afraid someone will hear me.
When youre discussing gender issues, its almost religious, the response.
Its almost zealotry.
Ms. Bowless piece stirred up a lot of debate on Twitter:
These difficulties make cacao ever less appealing to producers; yields and profits are low, and the average cacao farmer is aging.
The next generation seems to be abandoning the family business.
Yet demand for chocolate is rising, especially as gargantuan markets like China and India indulge a taste for what used to be a treat primarily for American and European consumers.
A chocolate shortage may be on the horizon.
That is where Dr. Phillips-Moras project comes in.
The genetic diversity of cacao, on full display in the International Cacao Collection at C.A.T.I.E., may avert a chocolate crisis.
A Hybrid Solution

In the early 1980s, Dr. Phillips-Mora worked to identify the most naturally tolerant and productive cacao trees, then painstakingly hybridized the candidates to create novel varieties.
Breeding hybrid cacao clones is a lengthy process, and experts worldwide have largely failed in this endeavor.
But in 2006, Dr. Phillips-Mora released his first batch of hybrid cacao varieties.
Photo

Photo

In terms of disease resistance and yield, the differences were astonishing.
Dr. Phillips-Moras six hybrids produce on average about three times more cacao than standard varieties; under ideal conditions, the most prolific hybrids can produce six times more cacao.
After an 11-year trial, a hybrid called C.A.T.I.E.-R6 experienced a 5 percent frosty pod rot infection rate, compared to 75 percent infection for a control variety.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Our goal is not just to produce cacao, Dr. Phillips-Mora said.
Its also to give the basic living conditions to the farmers.
Most cacao farmers are very poor, because the system is based on material that doesnt have good yielding capacity.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Trees that buck this trend could make the family business look more enticing to the next generation of cacao growers.
The C.A.T.I.E.
hybrids are now growing in all Central American countries, as well as in Mexico and Brazil.
Agricultural yield and disease resistance may benefit farmers, but a cacao crop is worthless if it produces bland or foul-tasting chocolate.
Chocolate is the epitome of gastronomic hedonism.
But unlike nearly every other modern effort to increase crop yields, Dr. Phillips-Moras breeding program incorporates fine flavor as a prerequisite.
Cacao varieties that dont impress expert palates are discarded, no matter how well they grow.
Photo

The result of this protocol is that unlike many other crops favored for agronomics  the Red Delicious apple, the Cavendish banana  C.A.T.I.E.s cacao actually tastes good.
Chocolate makers are beginning to roast and package Dr. Phillips-Moras varieties.
Dandelion Chocolate, based in San Francisco, recently released a bar made from a mix of all six C.A.T.I.E.
hybrids.
I think honestly its going to be one of our most popular bars, said Greg DAlesandre, who heads cacao sourcing at Dandelion.
It has this nice balance of chocolaty and caramel notes, but it keeps it very accessible.
Dr. Phillips-Moras hybrid cacao varieties do not offer a perfect solution to all the crops challenges.
They cannot all self-pollinate, and some of the beans are small; they havent been properly tested in Africa or Asia, and they are not yet resistant to all the pathogens that afflict cacao globally.
Field trials are nearing completion on a new batch of clones bred to address some of these issues.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Moreover, the current roster of C.A.T.I.E.
clones were bred in response to known cacao production threats; the future will present new demands.
Pathogens evolve.
Unstable political situations in the developing world can affect agriculture.
Climate change will alter landscapes in unpredictable ways.
The solution is not to replace all cacao with the six available C.A.T.I.E.
varieties, but to be able to continue to diversify the cacao materials growing worldwide.
Like the Svalbard Global Seed Vault, the International Cacao Collection is a contingency against future disasters of unknown character.
Whatever fungal mutation may arise, wherever drought may strike, however chocolate tastes may change  there will likely be cacao genes somewhere in the collection that can form the basis of new hybrids to meet future challenges.
Photo

Still, Dr. Phillips-Mora worries about the future.
Though he works with deep-pocketed companies like Mars, Nestl and Hershey, the funds he receives are generally earmarked for specific research projects rather than for the maintenance of the collection and program for the future.
He estimates that he receives less than 5 percent of the funds necessary for proper upkeep of the collection each year.
So although Dr. Phillips-Mora retired three years ago, he plans to keep working until the solvency of the collection is ensured.
I will be very happy when I leave this institution to know that the collection will be protected financially, he said.
Its a treasure for everybody, for all the cocoa lovers.
Youve got rising market power, said Marshall Steinbaum, an economist at the Roosevelt Institute, a liberal think tank.
In general, that makes it hard for new businesses to compete with incumbents.
Market power is the story that explains everything.
That argument comes at a potent political moment.
Populists on both the left and right have responded to growing public unease about the corporate giants that increasingly dominate their online and offline lives.
Polling data from Gallup and other organizations shows a long-running decline in confidence in banks and other big businesses  a concern not likely to abate after high-profile data breaches at Equifax and other companies.
The start-up slump has far-reaching implications.
Small businesses in general are often cited as an exemplar of economic dynamism.
But it is start-ups  and particularly the small subset of companies that grow quickly  that are key drivers of job creation and innovation, and have historically been a ladder into the middle class for less-educated workers and immigrants.
Perhaps most significant, start-ups play a critical role in making the economy as a whole more productive, as they invent new products and approaches, forcing existing businesses to compete or fall by the wayside.
Across the decades, young companies are really the heavy hitters and the consistent hitters in terms of job creation, said Arnobio Morelix, an economist at the Kauffman Foundation, a nonprofit in Kansas City, Mo., that studies and promotes entrepreneurship.
The start-up decline might defy expectations in the age of Uber and Shark Tank.
But however counterintuitive, the trend is backed by multiple data sources and numerous economic studies.
Photo

In 1980, according to the Census Bureau data, roughly one in eight companies had been founded in the past year; by 2015, that ratio had fallen to fewer than one in 12.
The downward trend cuts across regions and industries and, at least since 2000, includes even the beating heart of American entrepreneurship, high tech.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Although the overall slump dates back more than 30 years, economists are most concerned about a more recent trend.
In the 1980s and 1990s, the entrepreneurial slowdown was concentrated in sectors such as retail, where corner stores and regional brands were being subsumed by national chains.
That trend, though often painful for local communities, wasnt necessarily a drag on productivity more generally.
Since about 2000, however, the slowdown has spread to parts of the economy more often associated with high-growth entrepreneurship, including the technology sector.
That decline has coincided with a period of weak productivity growth in the United States as a whole, a trend that has in turn been implicated in the patterns of fitful wage gains and sluggish economic growth since the recession.
Recent research has suggested that the decline in entrepreneurship, and in other measures of business dynamism, is one cause of the prolonged stagnation in productivity.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Weve got lots of pieces now that say dynamism has gone down a lot since 2000, said John Haltiwanger, a University of Maryland economist who has done much of the pioneering work in the field.
Start-ups have gone down a lot since 2000, especially in the high-tech sectors, and there are increasingly strong links to productivity.
What is behind the decline in entrepreneurship is less clear.
Economists and other experts have pointed to a range of possible explanations: The aging of the baby-boom generation has left fewer Americans in their prime business-starting years.
The decline of community banks and the collapse of the market for home-equity loans may have made it harder for would-be entrepreneurs to get access to capital.
Increased regulation, at both the state and federal levels, may be particularly burdensome for new businesses that lack well-staffed compliance departments.
Those and other factors could well play a role, but none can fully explain the decline.
More recently, economists  especially but not exclusively on the left  have begun pointing the finger at big business, and in particular at the handful of companies that increasingly dominate many industries.
% 40 35 30 Large (5,000+) Medium (100-4,999) Small (<100 employees) 1980 1990 2000 2010 The share of employees working at large, medium and small companies in the United States.
% 40 35 30 Large (5,000+) Medium (100-4,999) Small (less than 100 employees) 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 The share of employees working at large, medium and small companies in the United States.
The evidence is largely circumstantial: The slump in entrepreneurship has coincided with a period of increasing concentration in nearly every major industry.
Research from Mr. Haltiwanger and several co-authors has found that the most productive companies are growing more slowly than in the past, a hint that competitive pressures arent forcing companies to react as quickly to new innovations.
A recent working paper from economists at Princeton and University College London found that American companies are increasingly able to demand prices well above their costs  which according to standard economic theory would lead new companies to enter the market.
Yet that isnt happening.
If were in an era of excessive profits, in competitive markets we would see record firm entry, but we see the opposite, said Ian Hathaway, an economist who has studied the issue.
That, Mr. Hathaway said, suggests that the market is not truly competitive  that existing companies have found ways to block competitors.
Experts also point to anecdotal examples that suggest that the rise of big businesses could be squelching competition.
YouTube, Instagram and hundreds of lower-profile start-ups chose to sell out to industry heavyweights like Google and Facebook rather than try to take them on directly.
The tech giants have likewise been accused of using the power of their platforms to favor their own offerings over those of competitors.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Most recently, Amazon openly called for a bidding war among cities for its second headquarters  hardly the kind of demand a new start-up could make.
Mr. Morelix said the Amazon example was particularly striking.
Were saying that its O.K.
that they shape how a city charges taxes?
Mr. Morelix said.
And what kind of regulations they have?
That should be terrifying to anyone that wants a free market.
In Washington, where for years politicians have praised small businesses while catering to big ones, issues of competition and entrepreneurship are increasingly drawing bipartisan attention.
Several Republican presidential candidates referred to the start-up slump during last years primary campaign.
Progressive Democrats such as Senators Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota have pushed for stricter enforcement of antitrust rules.
In a speech in March, Ms. Klobuchar explicitly tied the struggles of entrepreneurs to rising corporate concentration.
In July, entrepreneurs achieved a mark of political relevance: their own advocacy group.
The newly formed Center for American Entrepreneurship will conduct research on the importance of new businesses to the economy and push for policies aimed at improving the start-up rate.
Its founding president, John Dearie, comes from big business  he was most recently the acting head of the Financial Services Forum, which represents big financial institutions.
Everybody loves entrepreneurship, but theyre not aware its in trouble, Mr. Dearie said.
If new businesses are the engine of net new job creation, and if new businesses are the engine of innovation, and new business creation is at 30-year lows, thats a national emergency.
We dont really see this trend ending anytime soon, said Marci Freede, who opened the Paint Place on the Upper West Side of Manhattan in 2014 and added a second location, in Astoria, Queens, last year.
Photo

Photo

Whether run by franchisees or sole proprietors, the classes have a similar structure: An artist offers step-by-step instructions on how to paint a predetermined image.
While they paint, customers enjoy an alcoholic beverage of their choice (or, if they prefer, coffee or water).
And when they finish, they get to keep their creations.
Classes can cost $35 to $65 a person, depending on location and format.
Cathy Deano, a founder of Painting With a Twist, which is based in Mandeville, La., said that most participants had not done much painting, if any, before taking a class, and that having a few sips of wine helped tame what she called the white canvas anxiety that novice artists can feel when starting a painting.
It just relaxes them, she said.
I tell my husband, Its like going fishing, said Susan Jean, the proprietor of Painting With a Twists Bentonville location.
You drink a little, talk a lot and bring something home.
Ms. Jean, 59, said she had always wanted to run her own business and had decided on a paint-and-sip shop after taking a class with her sister.
She is not an artist herself: I cant paint a wall, she said with a shrug.
She hires local artists to teach the classes, while she and her daughter, Katie Collins, run the business.
Some classes are open to anyone; others are geared toward couples or girls night out groups.
Companies also schedule classes as team-building exercises or fund-raising events.
The paint-and-sip trend has been driven in part by a generally heightened interest in wine, said Ben Litalien, an instructor in the franchise-management certificate program at Georgetown Universitys School of Continuing Studies.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But, Mr. Litalien said, consumers were also increasingly being drawn to experiences that engage them and allow them to express themselves, rather than simply buying something.
Other examples of experience-based businesses that he cited included Top Golf, where customers play golf-related games, and escape rooms, where participants solve puzzles together.
The growth of such businesses may reflect the findings of recent psychological research showing that people are happier when they have an experience rather than making a purchase.
In a 2014 article in Psychological Science (title: Waiting for Merlot), researchers at Cornell University and the University of California, San Francisco, found that just the anticipation of experiences could be more pleasurable than the anticipation of buying merchandise.
Starting a Painting With a Twist location requires an initial franchise fee of $25,000; total upfront costs, including that fee, can run from $89,000 to $188,000, depending on location.
The companys franchise agreement calls for a seven-year commitment.
Annual gross revenue for individual outlets averages about $388,000, according to Painting With a Twist.
Mr. Litalien said that demand for so-called experiential classes was high and that there appeared to be little risk of cannibalization as the industry grew.
A potential long-term challenge was getting customers to return, especially, he said, as the novelty subsides.
In other words, how many paintings of sunsets and butterflies do people want, even if they painted them themselves?
Some outlets are trying different approaches to keep the experience fresh.
Bottle & Bottega, which is based in Chicago, offers classes to personalize a wine glass or holiday ornament.
It also offers bachelorette parties, where participants paint a nude male model.
Bottle & Bottegas website describes the sessions as fun, classy and upscale.
Photo

Photo

Ms. Freede of the Paint Place said her outlets tried to spice things up as well, offering erotic painting nights for couples.
Nothing vulgar, she said, just paintings that might be a bit more risqu than those offered on a typical night.
Many locations tap into Americans obsession with dogs and cats by offering Paint Your Pet classes.
Participants provide photographs of their pets in advance, which an artist sketches in pencil.
Classes are then devoted to finishing the images with paint.
Those always sell out, said Ms. Collins of the Painting With a Twist location here.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Studios also try to connect painting classes to the wider world.
The Bentonville group, for instance, painted a purple-hued eclipse, in honor of the solar eclipse in August.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Shelby Nichols, the instructor for the two-hour session in Bentonville on that August Friday, stepped onto a raised platform.
Wearing a headset with a microphone, she ran through a checklist of supplies: chalk, paint and brushes.
Were going to put the first layer on a bit thin, she said, demonstrating on her own canvas.
Dont glop it on!
Ms. Nichols, 31, a professional illustrator, said she enjoyed moonlighting as a teacher for inexperienced artists.
Im a ham, she said, so I like being on stage.
As she delivered instructions, a playlist featuring the singer Bruno Mars and 80s bands like Simple Minds provided a soundtrack.
Ms. Collins surveyed the room and offered encouragement.
As the session proceeded, the mood grew increasingly relaxed, an end-of-week feeling combined with the effect of the alcohol.
The sessions are as much about socializing as they are about art.
Resist the urge to paint the middle right now, Ms. Nichols admonished, as the participants painted a yellow oval.
Resist!
Photo

The class was a mix of couples, friends, newcomers and regulars.
Gayle Jackson, 70, sipped a glass of white wine as she painted.
She said she considered the drink incidental to the camaraderie.
Im a widow, she said, and this gets me out.
She added that it also gave her ideas for painting at home with her grandchildren.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

At the next table, Lexy Paryzek, 25, a human resources manager at a hospital, and her date, Jonathan Hendrix, 29, a real estate appraiser, shared a bottle of wine.
Mr. Hendrix said it was their second visit; it had been his idea to bring Ms. Paryzek the first time.
Its quality time together, he said, adding that it was nice to have a date night that did not involve a bar.
This time, they had brought along their mothers, who sat across the table.
Its just relaxing, said Mr. Hendrixs mother, Karen Hendrix, who had been before.
Im a teachers aide, so I need some stress-free time.
Local regulations governing such businesses vary.
Some paint-and-sip locations allow people to bring their own alcohol, but others do not and require patrons to buy drinks on site.
Classes typically last just two hours, so it is rare for someone to get too tipsy, Ms. Collins said.
The exception is on weekends, when it is sometimes obvious that a patron has been pre-gaming, drinking before class.
In those instances, she said, she makes sure to ask if the person has a ride home.
So far, she said, weve never had to shut somebody off.
Patrons have mostly been able to follow an instructors directions, but occasionally someone will need extra help.
Once, Ms. Collins said, a male patron planned to paint Will you marry me?
on a canvas and present it to his girlfriend as a proposal, but he got too nervous.
The instructor finished it for him.
