WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Republicans on Tuesday fell short yet again in their seven-year drive to repeal Obamacare, in a bitter defeat that raises more questions about their ability to enact President Donald Trumps agenda.
The party was unable to win enough support from its own senators for a bill to repeal the 2010 Affordable Care Act and decided not to put it to a vote, several Republicans said.
The bills sponsors vowed to try again, but face steeper odds after Sunday, when special rules expire that allow them to pass healthcare legislation without Democratic support.
We basically ran out of time, said Senator Ron Johnson, a co-sponsor of the measure with Senators Bill Cassidy, Lindsey Graham and Dean Heller.
Republicans have now repeatedly failed to deliver on their longtime promise to roll back former Democratic President Barack Obamas signature domestic accomplishment.
They have yet to achieve any major domestic policy successes in Congress this year, which could hurt their efforts to retain control of the Senate and House of Representatives in the November 2018 congressional elections.
Republicans widely view Obamacare, which provides coverage to 20 million Americans, as a costly government overreach.
Trump vowed frequently during the 2016 election campaign to scrap it.
Democrats have fiercely defended it, saying it has extended health insurance to millions.
After falling short in July, Senate Republicans tried again this month with a bill that would have given states greater control over the hundreds of billions of dollars that the federal government spends annually on health care.
As before, they ran into objections from members on the right and the center who opposed repeal for essentially opposite reasons.
Senator Susan Collins, a moderate, complained it undermined the Medicaid program for the poor and weakened consumer protections.
Senator Rand Paul, a conservative, said it left too many of Obamacares regulations and spending programs in place.
Democrats said it was time for Republicans to work with them to fix Obamacares shortcomings, and Republican Senator Lamar Alexander said he would resume talks with Democratic Senator Patty Murray to shore up the laws insurance subsidies.
Shares of healthcare providers ended broadly higher.
Hospital company HCA Healthcare Inc rose 1.8 percent, while insurer Centene Corp, which focuses on Medicaid, rose 2.2 percent.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, accompanied by (L-R) Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Sen. John Barrasso (R-WY), Sen. John Thune (R-SD), Sen. Bill Cassidy (R-LA) and Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX), speaks with reporters following the party luncheons on Capitol Hill in Washington, U.S., September 26, 2017.
REUTERS/Aaron P. Bernstein

The insurance industry, hospitals, medical advocacy groups such as the American Medical Association, American Heart Association and American Cancer Society, the AARP advocacy group for the elderly and consumer activists opposed the latest bill.
TRUMP DISAPPOINTED

Trump said on Tuesday his administration was disappointed in certain so-called Republicans who did not support the bill.
The Republican president said later he still had not given up hope that the law would eventually be repealed.
Itll happen, he told reporters while traveling to New York for a fundraiser.
Republicans hold a slim 52-48 majority in the Senate and

Slideshow (18 Images)

at least three senators - Collins, Paul and John McCain of Arizona - had publicly rejected the bill.
Republicans crafted special rules earlier this year that allowed them to pass a bill with a simple majority in the 100-seat chamber.
After those rules expire at the start of the new fiscal year on Sunday, they will need at least 60 votes to advance most legislation.
John Thune, a member of the Republican leadership in the Senate, said the party would likely not try to undo Obamacare again until it was clear there were enough votes for it.
He said the party would now focus on overhauling the U.S. tax code - another complex undertaking that could meet with stiff resistance from a wide range of interest groups.
A CBS poll on Monday showed 52 percent of Americans disapproved of the Graham-Cassidy healthcare bill, while 20 percent approved.
I will readily admit that the Republican Party has done a bad job of explaining what were for in terms of replace on Obamacare, Republican Senator Ben Sasse said on the Senate floor.
Six protesters staged a die-in on the floor of a Senate office building, lying on the ground and covering their heads and bodies with a white shroud to represent what they said would be lives lost if the bill passed.
The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office said the number of people with health insurance covering high-cost medical events would be slashed by millions if the latest Republican bill had it become law.
The CBO also found that federal spending on Medicaid would be cut by about $1 trillion from 2017 to 2026 and that millions of people would lose their coverage in the program, mainly from a repeal of federal funding for Obamacares Medicaid expansion.
BRUSSELS/MADRID (Reuters) - Picking Amsterdam, Barcelona or Vienna as the new headquarters of Europes drugs regulator after Brexit would be the best option for retaining staff, according to a survey of its workers.
The European Medicines Agency (EMA) on Tuesday warned that it could lose more than 70 percent of its staff, making it unable to function, if politicians pick an unpopular base for the London-based agency once Britain leaves the European Union.
It cited a survey of its around 900 staff, but has declined to rank the 19 candidate cities.
The survey results, reviewed by Reuters, put Milan and Copenhagen in fourth and fifth place, respectively after the three most popular.
Dutch officials, who asked not to be named, said they understood they were first choice among the EMAs workers, hoping this would be taken into account by the European Commission when it made its recommendations.
The Commission is assessing new locations, but the decision rests with EU leaders who will try to reach a deal at their next summit in October, with a final decision expected a month later.
The EMA, which declined to comment, sees keeping staff as key to maintaining essential services such as new drug approval and monitoring side effects, following the planned move from London.
In its statement on Tuesday, the watchdog warned that only the five most popular of the 19 candidate cities would permit it to largely maintain key functions.
Even then it would take to three years to fully recover from the disruption.
The EUs need to ensure business continuity could clash with another EU ambition -- sprading the blocs agencies more evenly across Europe and giving newer, eastern member states a chance to catch up.
All of the top five candidate cities favored by EMA staff are in countries that already host one or more EU agencies.
Some of the lower ranking cities are in Bulgaria, Croatia, Slovakia and Romania, where there are none.
Athens, Dublin and Stockholm are also among the aspiring host cities, while Milan had previously been seen as a possible frontrunner.
STOCKHOLM (Reuters) - The Swedish Radiation Safety Authority has issued a level 2 severity rating on a 7-degree scale for an incident on Sept. 21 at a nuclear testing facility in which radioactively contaminated material spread at the site.
Level 2 on the International Nuclear and Radiological Event Scale represents an incident.
The 1986 Chernobyl and 2011 Fukushima disasters are level 7 on the INES scale.
The authority said the owner of the facility on Swedens east coast, nuclear services firm Studsvik Nuclear, had started to decontaminate, and the contamination was confined to the site.
No one was on site at the time of the incident, it said.
It said the spread took place in connection with a false fire alarm and resulted in considerable surface contamination.
It did not describe the incident further.
Studsvik Nuclear Chief Executive Michael Mononen said radiation levels in the contaminated areas of the facility are very low.
(Reuters) - Researchers have discovered a protein that could help diagnose a degenerative brain disease commonly found in athletes, veterans of military service and others who have experienced brain trauma, a new study published on Tuesday showed.
Scientists from Boston University and the VA Boston Healthcare System, a group of hospitals run by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, discovered elevated levels of a protein called CCL11 in the brains of dead football players with Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE), but not in the brains of healthy people or people with Alzheimers disease.
Currently, CTE can only be diagnosed in a dead persons brain tissue.
According to the study, published in the journal PLOS ONE, because the protein CCL11 can be detected in the cerebrospinal fluid, researchers could be moving closer to developing a method for diagnosing CTE in the living.
CTE is linked to repeated head trauma and can lead to depression, anxiety and memory loss.
The study noted that its symptoms are similar to Alzheimers disease, and doctors have struggled to distinguish between Alzheimers and CTE in patients.
Boston University released research this past summer that found signs of CTE in 110 out of 111 deceased former National Football League players.
The findings were based on the broadest review yet of brains of former football players for signs of chronic traumatic encephalopathy.
CTE is linked to the sort of head-to-head hits that were long part of the sport, although the NFL and school leagues have been adjusting the game to limit blows to the head.
The condition has been diagnosed in former players including Hall of Fame linebacker Junior Seau and Pro Bowl safety Dave Duerson, who both committed suicide.
Former New England Patriots player Aaron Hernandez, who killed himself in prison in April, had a severe case of CTE, according to researchers at Boston University.
BU Today, the news division of Boston University which is the leading center studying CTE, described the research as a potential step toward developing therapies to treat the disease and better ways of preventing it.
While CCL11 is seen as one biomarker that could be used for that purpose, the studys authors said further research was needed.
CCL11 could eventually be used in combination with other biomarkers and procedures, such as positron emission tomography, or PET scans, to diagnose CTE in the living, according to the study.
(Reuters Health) - Nearly 20 percent of American adolescents, or one in five, has suffered a concussion, according to newly released statistics.
The odds were even higher for boys, with almost a quarter last year saying they had sustained a head injury and been diagnosed with a concussion.
Boys and girls who played contact sports were the most vulnerable.
Nearly one in three teen competitors in contact sports reported having had a concussion.
The statistics, published in the Journal of the American Medical Association, represent the first count of adolescent concussions in the U.S.
The findings mirror those of a regional study of Canadian adolescents and came as no surprise to lead author Phil Veliz, a sociologist with the Institute for Research on Women and Gender at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.
Sports participation is great, he said in a phone interview.
It does have a downside, and thats injury.
Concussions symptoms include headache, dizziness, nausea and amnesia.
Symptoms that should prompt an emergency room evaluation include confusion, difficulty waking or staying awake, vomiting and seizure.
Past studies have suggested that concussive impacts may contribute to changes in cognitive skills and physical brain changes in youth, high school and college-level players.
Veliz and his team analyzed responses to new questions about concussions in the annual national Monitoring the Future survey.
For the first time, the questionnaire asked students in grades 8, 10 and 12 if they ever had a head injury that was diagnosed as a concussion.
An estimated 19.5 percent of more than 13,000 survey respondents said they had at least one diagnosed concussion.
Of students who played a contact sport in the prior year, 31.5 percent reported having had at least one diagnosed concussion, and more than 11 percent reported at least two.
Contact sports include football, lacrosse, ice hockey and wrestling, all competitions in which contact is officially sanctioned.
Now we have a baseline number, Veliz said.
Lets hope people are putting interventions in place at the high school level.
We want to see this rate going down.
Dr. Matthew Eisenberg, an emergency physician at Boston Childrens Hospital who teaches pediatrics and emergency medicine at Harvard Medical School, told Reuters Health by email, Theres so little we actually know about preventing concussions.
Helmets can protect against brain swelling and bleeding but not concussions, he said, and neck strengthening and the use of proper tackling techniques can guard against concussions but are challenging to teach and implement.
For now, were left with trying to monitor and identify concussions and get kids the care they need before they make things worse, he said.
Eisenberg, who was not involved with the study, said he was struck by the differing incidence of concussion rates by race, with black and Hispanic teens reporting far fewer concussions than white teens.
Eisenberg said he suspects the lower number reflects teens of color being less likely to be diagnosed with concussion, not that they actually have fewer concussions.
But the question requires further study, he said.
He also pointed to two limitations of the study.
It relies on middle and high school students to report that theyve been diagnosed with a concussion, and it cannot determine how many undiagnosed concussions students might have sustained.
Thats a particularly big issue for teenage athletes who may not want to report concussion symptoms for fear of being held out of the game, Eisenberg said.
Veliz would like to see a change in the culture of youth sports.
He played football and wrestled during middle and high school and put his own body in jeopardy in response to the pressure he felt to win.
We could be changing the rules of the game, he said.
We could be changing the culture.
Maybe coaches shouldnt push so much.
Maybe athletes shouldnt push themselves to a level where theyre going to actually cause serious damage to their body thats going to have long-term effects, he said.
Parents might urge their children to play sports with less contact and less likelihood for injury, he said.
When his 6-year-old son, who does martial arts, competes, Veliz said he tells him: If you dont feel comfortable doing something, just sit it out.
You dont have to prove yourself.
Youre a kid.
This isnt your career.
Just have fun.
SOURCE: bit.ly/2wSOTm0 JAMA, online September 26, 2017.
An Apple Watch activity app shows completed move, exercise and standing goals for the day in this illustration image taken in Sydney, Australia, September 21, 2017.
Picture taken September 21, 2017.
REUTERS/Jason Reed/Illustration

(Reuters) - Digital devices designed to monitor the wearers health in much greater detail than current models will need regulatory approval, and Apple Inc, Fitbit Inc and seven other companies will take part in a program to speed the approval process, the U.S. health regulator said on Tuesday.
The firms will take part in a program that could make it faster for digital health devices to come to market by requiring less information to be sent to regulators ahead of time, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration said.
Current devices, like the Apple Watch or Fitbit Blaze, measure things like motion and heart rate.
But to take further measurements like blood oxygen or glucose, future devices might full under regulatory review.
That review can take months or years, which is far slower than the pace of software updates from most technology firms.
Because of the potential for lengthy reviews, consumer technology companies have been reluctant to wade directly into territory regulated by the FDA.
Apple, for example, has tended to partner with existing health researchers and companies DexCom Inc, a conventional medical device firm, for uses of their products that involve regulatory oversight.
But under President Donald Trump, the FDA has been moving to relax some of its requirements.
The FDA in July created a pilot program that would pre-certify certain companies so that they have to submit less information before marketing a product.
The initial participants in the pilot program also included Samsung Electronics Co Ltd, Alphabet Incs Verily biotech unit, Johnson & Johnson and Swiss biotech firm Roche AG, among others.
The FDA said in a statement it was also considering whether companies in the pilot program may not have to submit a product for premarket review in some cases.
Our method for regulating digital health products must recognize the unique and iterative characteristics of these products, FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb said in the statement.
One major difference in the pilot program from existing regulations is that it will evaluate companies based on how well their software-design systems work, rather than looking at each product and its accompanying software individually.
We are hopeful this will allow us to accelerate FDA regulated features and software development, bringing new capabilities that could positively impact health outcomes to market more quickly, Fitbit CEO James Park said in a statement.
The headquarters of the European Medicines Agency (EMA), is seen in London, Britain, April 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Hannah McKay

PARIS (Reuters) - More than three decades after links emerged between Sanofis epilepsy drug valproate and birth defects, many pregnant women remain unaware of the risks, patients, doctors and researchers said on Tuesday.
Prescribed globally for epilepsy and bipolar disorders - and in some cases migraines - valproate is included in the Worlds Health Organisation list of essential medicines.
But the drug is also known to have caused birth malfunctions and slow neurological development after being taken during pregnancy.
Measures have been taken ... but these have largely been tick-box exercises with little regard for delivering real change, Karen Keely, from Irish patient support group Fetal Anti-Convulsant Syndrome, told a public hearing in London hosted by the European Medicines Agency (EMA).
Tuesdays hearing was the first time the EMA has held such an event, inviting EU citizens to share their experience with a particular medication.
Sanofi, which told the hearing there was clear data showing an increased risk of malformation when taking valproate during pregnancy, said it had always provided up-to-date advice.
But parents of those affected have repeatedly said health authorities worldwide as well as the French drugmaker were too slow to warn of the drugs side effects.
It is sold under brands such as Depakote and Epilim.
At the hearing, patients, medics and researchers said there were shortcomings all along the chain from the pharmaceutical provider to the patient, including healthcare authorities.
Valproate is also at the center of a health scandal in France, where parliament voted last year to create a compensation fund for claims relating to Depakine, the brand under which valproate was first approved in 1967.
DILEMMA FOR SUFFERERS

Restrictions and warnings about valproate have been strengthened across Europe during the last three years after a first review.
But recent surveys in the United Kingdom showed almost 70 percent of women taking the drug had not received adequate advice.
Clare Pelham, speaking on behalf of Britains Epilepsy Society, said warnings on medicine packages and leaflets were insufficient and that patients needed tailored conversations with healthcare professionals.
Others called for public information campaigns as well as a Europe-wide census of patients on valproate.
Eric Teo, who is in charge of drug safety at Sanofi, said his company had always provided the most up-to-date scientific information with the approval of the authorities.
Valproate is an important treatment that many women continue to rely on ...
It should be acknowledged that there is a real dilemma faced by doctors and women who have no other alternatives to control their seizures.
The EMA launched a new review of valproate safety in March at the request of the French medicines regulator ANSM.
The process, which will incorporate the input of Tuesdays hearing, is being conducted by the EMAs Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC).
A final recommendation is expected in December.
National authorities typically follow the advice of the EMA but the agency has no legal power to enforce particular actions on authorized medications.
Valproate medicines, for which Sanofi lost its patent in 1998, are prescribed in over 100 countries.
(Reuters Health) - Pregnant women who use cell phones may be no more likely to have kids with brain development problems than expectant mothers who avoid mobile devices, a recent study suggests.
We found no evidence of a harmful effect of the mother using her cell phone during pregnancy on her childs neurodevelopment at 3 and 5 years, said senior study author Dr. Jan Alexander of the Norwegian Institute of Public Health.
To our surprise, the more the mother was using her cell phone during pregnancy, the better language and motor skills her child had at 3 years of age, Alexander said by email.
A similar finding for fathers use, however, points to other lifestyle factors and not the physical impact of cell phones.
Some previous research, primarily in animals, has raised concerns about whether exposure to radiofrequency electromagnetic fields from cell phones might harm developing babies brains.
But results have been mixed, and many of the studies have been too small or brief to assess the long-term impact of cell phone exposure on child development, researchers note in BMC Public Health.
For the current study, researchers examined data on 45,389 mother-child pairs, surveying women about their cell phone use during pregnancy and their childs language, communication and motor skills at age 3 and 5.
Overall, about 10 percent of the women said they never or rarely used cell phones while they were pregnant, while 39 percent were considered low users, 47 percent were medium users and about 4 percent were high users.
Researchers considered women low users if they were on cell phones a few times a week and medium users if they were on mobile devices daily.
The high users were on cell phones at least an hour every day.
Compared to kids born to women who rarely if ever used cell phones during pregnancy, children of cell phone users had a 27 percent lower risk of having low sentence complexity, 14 percent lower risk of incomplete grammar and 31 percent lower risk of having moderate language delay at age 3, the study found.
Children born to mobile phone users also had an 18 percent lower risk of low motor skills at age 3.
The study isnt a controlled experiment designed to prove whether or how cell phone exposure during pregnancy might influence child development.
Parents also might have provided inaccurate information on their childs language development.
Even so, the findings should reassure expectant mothers that using a cell phone wont necessarily harm babies developing brains, the researchers conclude.
But other research has linked cell phone exposure to developmental problems like hyperactivity, and one study isnt enough to settle questions about the safety of exposing babies to mobile phones in utero, said Laura Birks, a researcher at the Barcelona Institute for Global Health (ISGlobal) who wasnt involved in the study.
I would not say that women have no reason to worry about cell phone use during pregnancy, Birks said by email.
While this study demonstrates a correlation between high cell phone use and improved language and motor skills in the child, we cannot conclude that this relationship is causal or that the child is not experiencing some other adverse effect of radio frequency exposure, Birks added.
If pregnant women want to reduce radiofrequency exposure while taking on the phones, they can use the hands-free function while talking on the phone and avoid holding the phone next to the abdomen, Birks advised.
SOURCE: bit.ly/2yG9dUy BMC Public Health, online September 5, 2017.
LONDON, Sept 27 (Reuters) - Around one in six new cases of HIV diagnosed in Europe are in people over the age of 50, health officials said on Wednesday, showing a need to raise awareness and tailor testing programs to older generations.
A study by researchers at the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) found steady growth over the past 12 years in rates of new HIV cases in older people in the region.
The over 50s were also more likely than younger people to have advanced HIV, the study found, and to have contracted it via heterosexual sex.
Our findings suggest a new direction in which the HIV epidemic is evolving.
This potentially is a result of older peoples low awareness of HIV and how it is transmitted, said Lara Tavoschi, who led the research at the ECDC and published it in The Lancet HIV journal.
She said a perception of older people being at lower risk of HIV is shared by some health workers and can mean HIV-related services are focused toward people under 50.
Our findings illustrate a clear need to provide comprehensive HIV prevention programs, including education, access to condoms, better testing opportunities and treatment targeted toward older adults across Europe, Tavoschi said.
Almost 37 million people worldwide have the human immunodeficiency virus that causes AIDS.
The majority of cases are in poorer regions such as Africa, where access to testing, prevention and treatment measures has been more limited, but the HIV epidemic has also proved stubborn in wealthy regions like Europe.
The ECDC study analyzed new HIV cases in the 28 EU countries plus Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway from 2004-2015.
It found that more than 54,000 over 50s were diagnosed with HIV during that time, compared to 312,500 cases in people aged 15 to 49.
The rate of diagnosis in older people increased in 16 European countries, including Britain, Belgium, Germany and Ireland.
By 2015, it found, rates of HIV among over 50s were highest in Estonia, Latvia, Malta and Portugal.
(Reuters Health) - Children who dont get enough sleep may be more likely to become overweight or obese than kids who typically get enough rest, a Danish study suggests.
The researchers focused on 368 normal weight children between 2 and 6 years old who were at risk for becoming overweight because they were born at a high birth weight, had heavy parents or came from a low-income family.
At the start of the study, parents recorded sleep diaries for their children over 7 days, noting how much total rest kids got and whether the children took naps, slept through the night, had difficulty falling asleep or waking up, or suffered from other sleep issues.
Parents also completed food diaries.
The children who got the least amount of nighttime sleep on average were more likely to become overweight during the following 1.3 years, the study found.
Kids who became overweight were also more likely to consume a lot of sugary foods and drinks.
Our study showed that children with the highest sleep variability consumed higher amounts of added sugars and sugary beverages but lower amounts of fruits and vegetables compared with children with lower sleep variability, said lead study author Anna Rangan of the University of Sydney.
This suggests that children who have less variable sleep duration, or better sleep routines, have better dietary quality than those who may have less stringent sleep routines, Rangan said by email.
While plenty of previous research has linked inadequate sleep to obesity in both children and adults, less is known about toddlers and young children with a high risk of obesity because of their own birth weight or parents weight and income, researchers note in the International Journal of Obesity.
At age 2, kids should get 11 to 14 hours of sleep in a 24-hour period, including naps, according to guidelines from the American Academy of Pediatrics.
From age 3 to 5, kids need 10 to 13 hours of sleep including naps, and starting at age 6 doctors recommend 9 to 12 hours of sleep.
At the start of the study, the children were getting an average of 10.7 hours of sleep a night, though this ranged from 8.8 hours to 12.5 hours.
Children who slept more than 10.7 hours on average had significantly less weight gain than kids who slept less than 10.4 hours, the study found.
Kids who slept less were more likely to have trouble falling asleep - and to go to their parents bed at night - than children who got more rest, the study also found.
One limitation of the study is that researchers relied on parents to accurately recall and report on childrens sleep routines, the authors note.
Its also possible that some unmeasured or poorly measured factors like socioeconomic status, family characteristics or physical activity might influence the connection between sleep and obesity.
Even so, the findings add to previous research linking inadequate sleep to increased caloric consumption and poor food choices, said James Gangwisch, a psychiatry researcher at Columbia University in New York who wasnt involved in the study.
Eating a poor diet, inadequate physical activity and being overweight can also contribute toward disturbed sleep, Gangwisch said by email.
Parents can help children get more sleep by enforcing a regular sleep schedule even on weekends and holidays, creating a calming bedtime routine, and removing electronics from the bedroom, said Stacey Simon, a pediatric sleep psychologist at Childrens Hospital Colorado and the University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus in Aurora.
Teaching kids that sleep is a priority  and modeling this behavior  by blocking out enough time to get the right amount of sleep is important, especially as children get older and become more independent, Simon, who wasnt involved in the study, said by email.
In addition to weight, we know that insufficient sleep has a negative impact on childrens behavior, mood, and cognition, Simon added.
So getting the right amount of sleep is extremely important.
SOURCE: go.nature.com/2yEeJHn International Journal of Obesity, online September 8, 2017.
(CNN) The headlines about football players and chronic traumatic encephalopathy - commonly known as CTE - seem endless.
The most recent diagnosis of the neurodegenerative brain disease was given to former New England Patriot Aaron Hernandez.
But one of the biggest obstacles in understanding CTE has been the inability to diagnose it in the living.
New research released Tuesday may make that possible.
Published in the journal PLOS One, researchers have found a protein that can be a marker of this devastating disease.
"This is something new," said Dr. Ann McKee , a neuropathologist and senior author of the studyMcKee has performed many of the high profile diagnoses of CTE among former pro-football players and is director of the Boston University CTE Center.
An early step in the right direction

McKee also cautioned that this is still early research.
"The next step -- is repeating, validating our findings, and seeing if we can detect it in blood, and of course doing it in living subjects.
These are critical next steps," she said.
CTE causes Alzheimer's-like symptoms, including memory loss, confusion, aggression, rage and, at times, suicidal behavior.
It is believed to result from repeated trauma to the head, which causes a buildup of the abnormal protein tau which clumps in the brain.
In this new study, researchers found an increased amount of the protein CCL11 in patients previously diagnosed with CTE.
CCL11 is a protein commonly associated with inflammation, a process which McKee said can be a trigger for the disease.
"Inflammation is normally a very helpful response in the brain, but when it goes on and persists for a long time, and gets out of control -- that's what we think happens in CTE," said McKee.
More exposure to football increases likeliness of CCL11

The paper evaluated the brains of 23 deceased football players with CTE, and compared them to the brains of 50 deceased people diganosed with Alzhiemer's disease and the brains of 18 deceased non-athletes.
When compared to the brains without CTE, researchers found those brains with CTE had significantly higher amounts of CCL11, even when compared to those brains with Alzheimer's, another degenerative brain disease.
Furthermore, they found that the more years someone played football, the higher amount of the protein.
However, contrary to the popularly held belief that a greater number of concussions are linked to CTE , no connection was found between levels of CCL11 and reported number of concussions.
In addition, the number of reported concussions tend to be an unreliable indicator in general, because they are usually self reported.
Although there are different stages of the disease that indicate how far it has progressed, this study was unable to determine any connections between levels of CCL11 and severity of CTE.
"The findings of this study are the early steps toward identifying CTE during life.
Once we can successfully diagnose CTE in living individuals, we will be much closer to discovering treatments for those who suffer from it," said McKee.
"It is a good step forward but I will be very conservative about the interpretations of the possible application to diagnosis," said Dr. Bennet Omalu, the neuropathologist credited with making the first diagnosis of CTE among professional football players.
Omalu found traces of the disease in the brain of legendary Pittsburgh Steelers player and pro Hall of Famer Mike Webster in 2002.
While Omalu was cautiously optimistic about the development, he also noted that CCL11 isn't unique to the brain disease.
"This is an inflammatory marker that may be non-specific and may not be diagnostic of CTE," he said.
While it is hoped that this will be one avenue to help detect the disease in the living, McKee believes that it will just be one part of a larger process.
"This may be one of the abnormalities [of the disease], but it may take 2-3 to be useful to diagnose CTE," said McKee.
imaging.
Previous studies have evaluated other potential biomarkers for CTE, including identifying the protein tau using brainimaging.
110 of 111 former NFL players found with CTE

A recent analysis by BU found evidence of CTE in 110 of 111 brains of former NFL players.
However, there is a potential bias in that study, as relatives of these players may have submitted their brains for diagnosis due to clinical symptoms noticed while the players were alive.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
CTE has been detected in veterans, as well as players of other contact sports; however, it has become most associated with football.
Along with Hernadez, CTE has been diagnosed in San Diego Charger and Hall of Famer Junior Seau, as well as the Philadelphia Eagles' Kevin Turner and the Oakland Raiders' Ken Stabler, to name a few.
In 2015, a federal judge approved a class-action lawsuit settlement between the NFL and thousands of former players who accused the league of hiding the dangers of concussions and repeated head trauma.
The agreement provides up to $5 million per retired player for serious medical conditions associated with repeated head trauma.
As Congress debates a new health care bill, Dr. Sanjay Gupta asks: Why is health care in the United States so expensive in the first place?
Source: CNN
(CNN) As the latest Republican replacement for the Affordable Care Act begins its death rattle, a growing number of physicians worry that any solution Washington proposes will not fix the nation's ailing health care system.
"Forget Republican or Democrat, when I look at the Affordable Care Act (ACA) or the Graham-Cassidy pathway, it doesn't matter," said Dr. Brian Hill, an Atlanta urologist, "because they are both doing a miserable job in helping people get health care."
"It's rearranging deck chairs on the Titanic," said Dr. Kevin Campbell, a North Carolina cardiologist who advises young doctors on how to build their practices.
"Obamacare has been a disaster but I've seen nothing of substance to replace it from the Democrats.
I see nothing viable from the Republicans."
"I'm not a fan of any legislation that Washington has come up with," said Dr. Keith Smith, who runs a cost-transparent surgical center in Oklahoma City.
"The GOP version of the plan that they would inflict on all of us is like giving gin instead of vodka to an alcoholic and assuming something different will occur."
Informal surveys show growing concern

a physician news aggregator, found 54.7% oppose or strongly oppose the Graham-Cassidy plan, while only 19.8% support or strongly support it.
About 25% of respondents were neutral.
Insider surveys by physician recruiting firms and websites echo those sentiments.
An email survey of 887 physicians released today by MDLinx,a physician news aggregator, found 54.7% oppose or strongly oppose the Graham-Cassidy plan, while only 19.8% support or strongly support it.
About 25% of respondents were neutral.
In what's considered the final blow for the latest GOP proposal, the Congressional Budget Office released a partial report late Monday which said it would result in "millions fewer people with comprehensive health insurance that covers high-cost medical events."
But physician dissatisfaction with the Trump administration health care proposals goes back further than this latest iteration.
Released in July as part of the Medicus Firm's 2017 annual report on physician practice and relocation preferences , a random sample of 2,351 doctors from 50 states and more than 20 specialties were asked to more widely grade the Trump administration's impact on health care policy -- 55% of those who responded gave the administration a failing grade.
The Great American Physician Survey, done every year by Physicians Practice, which provides information and advice to physicians in private practice, found similar results from the 826 doctors in its survey released earlier this month.
"The highest percentage, 40%, say the Trump administration gets an 'F' in health care so far," said Gabriel Perna, Physicians Practice managing editor.
"These aren't scientific surveys," warned Dr. Benjamin Sommers, an internist and health economist at the Harvard T.H.
Chan School of Public Health, because they don't statistically account for bias.
"Doctors tend to be a difficult group to survey and get their opinions in a really scientific sort of way."
Because Graham-Cassidy is essentially similar to the prior GOP replacement bills, Sommers said he suspects that most physician views haven't changed.
"Those who dislike the Affordable Care Act and favor less federal oversight in health care and more state control will be happy with it," said Sommers.
"Those who worry that cutting ... Medicaid and other health care programs will lead to millions of Americans losing health insurance will be very worried about the damage this bill could cause."
A move toward single payer?
Perhaps more surprising are the results of recent informal surveys that show an increased interest by doctors in a single payer system, such as the "Medicare for All" proposal from Bernie Sanders, Vermont's Independent senator and 2016 presidential candidate.
The MDLinx survey found just over 48% of physicians polled would support a single payer system, even though they thought it would lower their income and could possibly reduce the quality of care for their patients.
"I was really surprised," said Jim Stone, president of the Medicus Firm, a physician recruiting company.
"Physicians have generally been a fairly independent group, they don't want anything dictated to them, and I find it shocking that we are even seeing this degree of acceptance for a single payer system."
A national survey released earlier this month by another physician staffing agency, Merritt Hawkins and Associates, also found 56% of 1,033 doctors either strongly or somewhat supported a single payer health care plan.
While the poll is non-scientific, it's interesting when compared to past polling by the same group.
"This is a near reversal of a national survey of physicians Merritt Hawkins conducted in 2008, which indicated 58% of physicians opposed single payer at that time," said Phillip Miller, vice president of communications for Merritt Hawkins.
"This is not surprising at all to me," said Harvard Medical School's Dr. Adam Gaffney, who is also on the board of Physicians for a National Health Program , which supports "Medicare for All."
"The ACA has not taken us where we need to be.
And many doctors are unhappy with the wasteful health care system that predated the ACA.
"In my opinion 'Medicare for All' would help by giving us one set of rules.
You'd have a national formulary.
Regardless of who is in front of you, you'd know how they would be covered without going to their insurance company to see what they would cover."
Time to start over

"I'm not sure that a single payer is the best way to go, especially since the government has not done a good job so far," said Dr. Linda Girgis, a family physician who volunteers for SERMO , a leading social network for physicians.
In her South River, New Jersey, practice Girgis sees a lot of problems she feels are not addressed by any of the proposed plans.
"Patients are self-rationing their care.
We had a mother and child who were both sick at the same time, and the mom canceled her appointment with me and only took her daughter to the pediatrician," said Girgis.
"She could only afford the deductible for one of them."
Girgis places much of the blame on insurance companies, and would like to see any proposal in Washington improve transparency into their systems and oversight of their actions.
"Insurance companies are making poor decisions, denying certain tests and raising prices," said Girgis.
"Patients are getting medications that may not be the best choice for them because that is what the insurance company will cover."
North Carolina's Campbell shares Girgis' concerns about insurance processes.
"I spend a great deal of my time as a cardiologist arguing on the phone with what the insurance companies call 'peer to peer' reviewers, and they are nowhere near my peers," said Campbell.
"They will argue if a pacemaker is appropriate and they are not trained in cardiovascular medicine, much less in pacemaker surgery."
He, too, would like to see additional oversight of insurance companies, but doesn't stop there.
"Nothing has come out of Washington that even talks about regulating the costs of pharmaceuticals, one of the leading drivers of health care costs," said Campbell.
"We also have no tort reform on a national level, so we're spending millions upon millions of health care dollars every single year ordering unnecessary tests because physicians are practicing 'defensive medicine' to protect themselves from predatory litigation for malpractice."
"I wish they would leave us alone and let the market work," added Smith, the Oklahoma City surgeon.
"Central planning from Washington is a disaster.
It has distorted free markets and just drives the price up for everyone."
Smith is part of a entrepreneurial physician movement toward fee-based service, with transparent prices that patients can see online.
That, says Smith, allows his patients to shop for the best price and hold their doctor accountable for quality.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"In my world, if I don't provide a service that is valued, my doors are closed, and that's the discipline every other industry must face," said Smith.
"And that's what I see as the problem.
We don't have an open, competitive market where the patients know the price before they pay."
Atlanta urologist Hill agrees.
He's developing a version of direct pay care with a reduced administrative burden that he hopes will cover the entire health care "ecosystem," from primary care to specialists, to lab work, tests and medications.
"Right now, I have to negotiate a contract with the insurance companies and hire a back office of coders and billers that I have to run everything through in order to get paid," said Hill.
"And then the insurance company has to hire people to fight me trying to get paid.
"What if we do something different and start working directly with our patients?"
asked Hill.
"What if we got all those costs out of my office and I get to have a relationship with you, my patient, the person that I actually went to medical school to take care of?"
Hill's views that a new approach is needed were echoed in the informal MDLinx survey.
When asked "What would be the ideal scenario for US health care?"
nearly 38% said they wanted something completely new because none of the current options were feasible.
"As you can tell, doctors are frustrated," said Campbell.
"We feel like our voices are not being heard.
Health care reform the first time happened around us.
This time it needs to listen to us."
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
(CNN) One in every six cases of HIV in Europe is diagnosed in people over the age of 50, a new study has found.
Between 2004 and 2015, the number of new HIV diagnoses increased by 2.1% each year among this age group, with people over 50 accounting for 17.3% of new HIV cases diagnosed in Europe in 2015.
Experts argue sexual health programs should increasingly target this demographic, as well as the younger population.
"Our findings suggest a new direction in which the HIV epidemic is evolving," said Lara Tavoschi, a scientific officer at the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), who led the study published Tuesday in the medical journal Lancet HIV .
"We see a steady increase in the number of new (HIV) diagnoses among older adults in the region."
The route of transmission was mostly heterosexual, Tavoschi confirmed.
"We need to increase awareness campaigns among older age groups," she told CNN.
Rise for some, fall for others

Using routine annual surveillance data from 31 countries, reported to the European Surveillance System between 2004 and 2015, the team at the ECDC analyzed new HIV diagnoses among people aged 15 and above.
The rate of HIV diagnosis among people over 50 increased in 16 countries, including Germany, Ireland and Belgium, and decreased in just one country, Portugal.
Rates were highest in Estonia, Latvia and Malta, where more than seven new cases were diagnosed per 100,000 older people by 2015.
Numbers also increased among younger people in these countries, aged 15 to 49 years.
In certain countries, however, such as the United Kingdom and Norway, new diagnoses went down among young people, but increased in the over-50 population, with more than a 3.6% increase in newly diagnosed HIV cases each year in both of these nations.
"This is a result of successful awareness campaigns that may not have targeted older adults enough," Tavoschi said, speculating on one reason behind the trend.
England has a national HIV prevention program in place, for example, using local activities and social marketing to promote national HIV testing weeks and a campaign called "It starts with me" to increase testing and condom use, reduce stigma and inform people about sexually transmitted infections and practicing safe sex.
Previous studies have shown a stigma attached to older people having a sex life being at play, added Tavoschi, and the lack of sex assumed among this age group "is not a real reflection of what is happening in this group today," she said, preventing health care providers from discussing sexual health with older patients.
The data also showed that while diagnoses among men are rising among younger and older people across Europe, the numbers are decreasing among younger women, but increasing among older ones.
For now, "it's unknown why," Tavoschi told CNN.
Last to know

In addition to rising rates, the study also discovered that people over 50 were also more likely to be diagnosed with advanced HIV disease -- meaning they will have been infected for longer without knowing.
The team at the ECDC explored levels of CD4 immune cells -- the cells typically damaged by HIV -- of more than 60% of people diagnosed in 2015 to identify the proportion of people diagnosed later into their infection, shown by lower levels of these cells.
Among all age groups, 47% of people analyzed were diagnosed late, but when divided out by age, 63% of people older than 50 were delayed in going to their clinic to be diagnosed, compared to 43% among those younger than 50.
"Being HIV positive and not knowing may endanger other people by transmitting the disease unknowingly," said Tavoschi, adding that some studies have also shown lower survivability among older people living with HIV.
"This study reminds us that we cannot afford complacency when it comes to HIV.
People of all ages need to be reminded that the HIV epidemic is not over and viral transmission is still a very real possibility in all parts of the world in all populations and age groups," said Linda-Gail Bekker, president of the International AIDS Society, who was not involved in the research.
"Surveillance such as this is critical for us to keep a real and present focus on where resources and efforts need to go ... With an increased focus on young people, we need to be sure our messaging doesn't leave out other critical populations."
An evolving epidemic

While the new findings offer insight into a previously under-recognised demographic in terms of HIV control, Tavoschi acknowledges that in terms of the global HIV control, older people are not driving the epidemic.
More than 36 million people were estimated to be living with HIV/AIDS globally in 2015.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
While 2.5 people per 100,000 over the age of 50 were diagnosed with HIV in these 31 countries in 2015, 10.4 people per 100,000 under 50 were diagnosed that same year -- four times higher.
"Clearly the magnitude of one group is bigger," said Tavoschi.
But, she points out, "the epidemic is evolving and going in a new direction that we need to take into account ... by health care providers."
"This issue is not something public health has given adequate attention to -- older people are 'at risk' but this is often not appreciated," said Janet Seeley, professor of anthropology and health at the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine in the UK, who wrote a related commentary on the findings.
She highlighted the importance of campaigns such as " Age is not a condom " in the UK.
"It highlights the need to use a condom because even if pregnancy is no longer likely, sexually transmitted infections including HIV, are."
(CNN) In 2016, Americans were infected with more than 2 million new cases of gonorrhea, syphilis and chlamydia, the highest number of these sexually transmitted diseases ever reported, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Tuesday.
"Clearly we need to reverse this disturbing trend," said Dr. Gail Bolan, director of CDC's Division of STD Prevention.
"The CDC cannot do this alone and we need every community in America to be aware that this risk is out there and help educate their citizens on how to avoid it."
The agency's annual Sexually Transmitted Disease Surveillance Report shows that more than 1.6 million of the new cases were from chlamydia, 470,000 were from gonorrhea and nearly 28,000 cases were of primary and secondary syphilis.
Secondary syphilis is the most contagious form of the disease, according to the CDC.
While all of these can be cured by antibiotics, many people go undiagnosed and untreated.
Only those three STDs are required by law to be reported to the CDC by physicians.
When you include HIV, herpes and more of the dozens of diseases which can be transmitted sexually but which are not tracked, the CDC estimates there are more than 20 million new cases of STDs in the United States each year.
At least half occur in young people ages 15 to 24.
"STDs are out of control with enormous health implications for Americans," said David Harvey, executive director of the National Coalition of STD Directors.
The coalition represents state, local and territorial health departments who focus on preventing STDs.
"If not treated, gonorrhea, chlamydia and syphilis can have serious consequences, such as infertility, neurological issues, and an increased risk for HIV," said Harvey.
Common STDs

The most common STD is chlamydia.
It's caused by the bacteria chlamydia trachomatis , and like most STDs, is easily transmitted by all forms of sexual activity -- oral, vaginal or anal -- as well as during childbirth.
Chlamydia is known as a "silent" infection, because most people have no symptoms, which means it often goes untreated.
In women, it can ultimately cause pelvic inflammatory disease that can scar and affect fertility.
In men, it can cause testicular pain and swelling.
Gonorrhea is another bacterial STD that can be silent, but often displays symptoms such as burning during urination and vaginal or penile discharge.
If caught anally, it can create itching, bleeding and painful bowel movements.
If not treated, gonorrhea can cause severe and permanent health problems, including long-term pain and infertility.
Syphilis is the most serious bacterial STD.
Left untreated, syphilis can affect the brain, heart and other organs of the body, ultimately leading to death.
It's called the "Great Pretender," because the symptoms of syphilis which include rashes and chancres, or sores, fever, swollen lymph glands, sore throat, headaches, muscles aches and fatigue, mimic other diseases.
As the disease progresses, the symptoms go away, and progress silently to it's most deadly stage.
At one point, the United States had all but eliminated syphilis, turning it into a "disease of the past," said Bolan.
"Back in the '40s, the advent of penicillin, which is quite effective against syphilis, allowed us to dramatically reduce cases," she added.
"I remember a professor in medical school explaining what it was to us but then said 'You'll never see it.'
"

However, the new data show that rates of this potentially deadly disease increased almost 18% between 2015 and 2016, with most of the cases in men who have sex with men.
There was also a rise of the disease among women who pass it on to their newborns.
There were 628 cases of congenital syphilis among newborns reported in 2016, with more than 40 deaths and severe health complications among the babies who survived.
"For the first time in many years, we are now seeing more cases of babies born with congenital syphilis than babies born with HIV," said Harvey.
"It means that women are not getting access to prenatal care, testing and treatment for syphilis.
It's an unconscionable situation in America today."
"This is a completely preventable problem," agreed Bolan.
"Every baby born with syphilis represents a tragic public health system failure.
All it takes is a simple STD test and antibiotic treatment to prevent this tragedy from occurring."
What happened?
Bolan and Harvey both point to funding deficits as a huge part of the reason STDs are on the rise.
"Several factors are fueling the STD epidemic," Harvey said.
"Funding cutbacks for prevention, education and healthcare programs, an on-going debate about sex education for young people, with cutbacks in that arena, particularly from this administration, and a rise in social media dating apps have all contributed to the rise."
Another reason is the lack of symptoms for these diseases and a failure of practitioners to educate their patients on what to look for.
To counter the problem, the CDC has recently published a provider guide for physicians and is creating a network of clinical training centers for doctors.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"The fact that so many of these diseases are asymptomatic, which few tell-tale signals, mean that men and women aren't getting into their doctor to be tested," said Bolan.
"We need to get the word out that everyone needs a yearly checkup.
And we need to re-educate physicians to look for signs of such 'ancient' diseases as syphilis."
But an even bigger issue to overcome, Harvey said, is the embarrassment of having an STD.
"Unfortunately, STDs carry enormous stigma in this country, and it's hard for people to come forward for treatment," said Harvey.
"Ironically, HIV is an STD, but we have a very visible community who advocates and works to tell stories about the impact of HIV on people's lives.
We don't have that going for us with gonorrhea, syphilis and chlamydia.
We need a network of voices that say it's OK to get help."
(CNN) Our favorite fast foods could come back to bite us, according to a report released Wednesday -- and it's not just the extra calories.
The new report grades the 25 largest US fast food chains on where they stand on antibiotics.
The results are a mixed bag: For the third year in a row, the only two As were awarded to Chipotle Mexican Grill and Panera Bread.
More companies passed this year than ever before.
But 11 of the top 25 chains received an F, having taken "no (discernible) action to reduce use of antibiotics in their supply chains."
Nine companies didn't respond to the survey at all, just like last year.
While regulations and consumer pressure have encouraged some chains to cut back on the use of antibiotics, some experts worry it's not enough to stave off development of "superbugs" that can't be killed by some of our current medicines.
These bugs may get into our meat and produce

"If we don't rein in this pattern of antibiotic resistance in bacteria, what we will see is half a century of medical progress reversed," said Lena Brook , a food policy advocate with the Natural Resources Defense Council.
She has served as a lead expert on the report for each of the past three years.
Despite nearly half of restaurants receiving a failing grade, this is an improvement over the 16 that failed last year , the authors said.
"It's a rapid shift that we've seen in just a few short years, and that leaves me really hopeful," Brook said.
Who passed, and who didn't?
A total of 14 fast food and "fast casual" chains earned passing grades, a boost over nine last year.
There were only five the year before that, in 2015.
"It is important to note, however, that while remarkable progress has been made to reduce or even eliminate use of medically important antibiotics, this progress has largely occurred in chicken production," the authors said.
This is how Chipotle and Panera have stood above the rest: by making sure that pork and beef -- in addition to poultry -- are raised without antibiotics.
"While we are pleased to see others in our industry follow our lead in this important area, this report shows that there is still more work to be done across the industry," Chris Arnold, a Chipotle spokesman, said in an email.
The credit for most improved goes to KFC , which jumped from an F last year to a B- after committing to phase "medically important" antibiotics out of its chicken supply by the end of 2018.
Antibiotics are considered "medically important" for their use in humans, per the World Health Organization.
Subway earned a B+ for working to curtail antibiotics in poultry and meat.
However, its plan to do the same with pork and beef was far off in the future in comparison, keeping it from an A.

antibiotics in their chicken.
Earnings Bs and Cs were Wendy's Taco Bell and Chick-fil-A.
All have made moves to reduceantibiotics in their chicken.
McDonald's also earned a C+, just like last year.
The company updated its "Vision for Antibiotic Stewardship" policy in August, saying it planned to pare down unnecessary antibiotic use in all meats.
However, the company failed to give a timeline for pork and beef, the new report said.
"We remain committed to making meaningful reductions in the use of antibiotics in beef and pork and will share our progress on beef in 2018," Marion Gross , senior vice president for McDonald's North America supply chain, said in a statement.
Pizza Hut "made a token effort," the report authors said, receiving a D+ for creating policies that affected only a small portion of its chicken.
Starbucks earned the same grade for pledging to address antibiotic use in poultry, but not pork or beef.
Photos: Restaurant report card: How is your fast food meat raised?
Chain Reaction III: The third annual "Chain Reaction" report grades America's 25 largest fast food and "fast casual" restaurants on their antibiotics policies and meat sourcing practices.
These eleven restaurant chains received an F grade for the third consecutive year due to lack of a meaningful antibiotics policy.
Nine of these companies didn't respond to the survey at all.
Hide Caption 1 of 15 Photos: Restaurant report card: How is your fast food meat raised?
Chipotle - Grade: A "We started on our quest to serve meat from animals raised without the use of antibiotics in 1999, and continue to be a leader in this area today," Chipotle spokesman Chris Arnold said in an email.
"We made the decision to serve antibiotic-free meat simply because we thought it was the right thing to do -- the right thing for farmers, for animal welfare, and for human health -- and we continue to hold the belief today."
Hide Caption 2 of 15 Photos: Restaurant report card: How is your fast food meat raised?
Panera Bread - Grade: A "We're proud to have led the way on antibiotic reduction for more than a decade, starting with introducing chicken raised without antibiotics in 2004," Sara Burnett, director of wellness and food policy at Panera, said in a statement.
"Today at Panera, 100% of poultry, bacon, breakfast sausage and ham served on sandwiches and salads is raised without antibiotics."
Hide Caption 3 of 15 Photos: Restaurant report card: How is your fast food meat raised?
Subway - Grade: B+ "Our U.S. restaurants only serve chicken raised without antibiotics and we continue to work towards the elimination of antibiotic use in our Turkey, Pork and Beef supply," Subway said in a statement.
"Antibiotics are critical tools for keeping animals healthy and should be used responsibly to preserve their effectiveness in veterinary and human medicine.
We are proud of our progress and are committed to continued work in this space."
Hide Caption 4 of 15 Photos: Restaurant report card: How is your fast food meat raised?
Chick-fil-A - Grade: B "Our efforts in the journey toward serving only chicken raised with No Antibiotics Ever (are) something our customers told us they wanted," Rob Dugas, vice president of Chick-fil-A's supply chain, said in a statement.
"We have converted more than 50% of our supply to chicken raised with No Antibiotics Ever to date, and we are on track to achieve our goal of converting 100% of our chicken supply by December 31, 2019."
Hide Caption 5 of 15 Photos: Restaurant report card: How is your fast food meat raised?
Taco Bell - Grade: B- Taco Bell did not immediately respond to CNN's request for comment.
Hide Caption 6 of 15 Photos: Restaurant report card: How is your fast food meat raised?
KFC - Grade: B- "We're proud to be the first major chicken chain to commit to removing antibiotics important to human medicine in all of our chicken, including bone-in chicken," the company said in a statement to CNN.
"This change presented a unique challenge for us because we serve chicken-on-the-bone.
As such, this move required close collaboration with our suppliers who bring KFC chicken from the farm to our kitchens where it is hand-prepared."
Hide Caption 7 of 15 Photos: Restaurant report card: How is your fast food meat raised?
McDonald's - Grade: C+ "Moving to cage-free eggs by 2025, sourcing chicken raised without antibiotics important to human medicine since 2015, and introducing McNuggets with no artificial flavors, colors or preservatives are all examples of our continued commitment to our US customers," Marion Gross, senior vice president for McDonald's North America supply chain, said in a statement.
"Because we know we can and must do more across the globe, last month we also announced that in 2018 we will begin implementing a chicken antibiotics policy in markets around the world.
And we remain committed to making meaningful reductions in the use of antibiotics in beef and pork and will share our progress on beef in 2018."
Hide Caption 8 of 15 Photos: Restaurant report card: How is your fast food meat raised?
Wendy's - Grade: C "We continue to build on the progress we've made in phasing out the use of medically important antibiotics in our supply chain where possible," the company said in a statement.
"Wendy's is committed to accomplishing this with the help of suppliers, farmers and ranchers.
We believe the steps we are taking will make a difference in protecting the future health of people and animals."
Hide Caption 9 of 15 Photos: Restaurant report card: How is your fast food meat raised?
Pizza Hut - Grade: D+ Pizza Hut did not immediately respond to CNN's request for comment.
Hide Caption 10 of 15 Photos: Restaurant report card: How is your fast food meat raised?
Starbucks - Grade: D+ Starbucks did not immediately respond to CNN's request for comment.
Hide Caption 11 of 15 Photos: Restaurant report card: How is your fast food meat raised?
Dunkin' Donuts - Grade: D "We do not own, raise, process or transport livestock, but we recognize that animal welfare is an important part of a safe and sustainable food supply chain," the company said in a statement.
"By the end of 2018, any chicken offered in Dunkin' Donuts restaurants will be sourced from chickens raised with no antibiotics ever."
Hide Caption 12 of 15 Photos: Restaurant report card: How is your fast food meat raised?
Burger King - Grade: D Burger King did not immediately respond to CNN's request for comment.
Hide Caption 13 of 15 Photos: Restaurant report card: How is your fast food meat raised?
Papa John's - Grade: D Papa John's did not immediately respond to CNN's request for comment.
Hide Caption 14 of 15 Photos: Restaurant report card: How is your fast food meat raised?
Jack in the Box - Grade: D Jack in the Box did not immediately respond to CNN's request for comment.
Hide Caption 15 of 15

So what?
"Antibiotic resistance is one of the biggest health threats facing us today," says CNN Chief Medical Correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta.
"We've taken too many drugs, and as a result, they don't work the way they used to."
When animals get antibiotics, often in their food or drinking water, the drugs may kill a number of bacteria.
But a handful might harbor a gene that makes them resistant to drugs.
Those bacteria may survive, multiply and spread.
These bugs "can move off of farms," Brook said, "and find their way into communities."
They can even share their genes with weaker bacteria.
The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the World Health Organization have repeatedly warned about the not-far-off public health threat of antibiotic resistance.
The CDC estimates that at least 2 million Americans contract antibiotic-resistant infections every year and that 23,000 die as a result.
longer, more costly and more serious, And these infections are oftenlonger, more costly and more serious, according to the CDC.
The WHO cautioned in a 2014 report : "A post-antibiotic era -- in which common infections and minor injuries can kill -- far from being an apocalyptic fantasy, is instead a very real possibility for the 21st century."
Taking steps

While some experts criticize the routine use of antibiotics, others defend the practice, saying that antibiotics play an important role in maintaining animal health and may prevent an entire herd of sick animals that require these drugs down the line.
Despite the improvements detailed in the new report, Brook said it's unclear why there are so many "holdouts" with failing grades, many of whom did not answer the groups' questions.
"These companies tend to have long-range contracts.
Perhaps they're buying from recalcitrant producers," Brook suggested.
With so much variation among the top chains, she said it "points to the real need for federal policy to step in."
The US Food and Drug Administration has taken steps to limit the use of some antibiotics in food animals.
By January, animal drug manufacturers no longer allowed medically important antibiotics to be prescribed solely for growth purposes, according to the FDA.
But this left open the possibility that these drugs could be used to routinely prevent disease, even if no animals were sick, so long as a veterinarian had written a prescription.
This drew criticism that the FDA's efforts didn't go far enough.
"This represents a giant loophole in FDA guidelines, which effectively do little to stop the misuse of antibiotics in animal agriculture," the authors of the new report said.
"While the FDA believes the prevention use of antimicrobials in animal agriculture can play an important role in effectively managing animal disease, it is critical that such use be judicious," the agency said in a statement.
The FDA recommends that these drugs only be given if "there are no reasonable alternatives" to prevent disease.
It doesn't endorse giving these medications to "apparently healthy animals in the absence of any information that such animals were at risk of a specific disease," the agency added.
"Because (the FDA's) initiative was not fully implemented until January 2017, it is too early to speculate on how this effort may impact antimicrobial use in the animal agriculture setting," the agency said of its plan, which launched in December 2013.
Before the FDA's announcement, around 70% of "medically important" antibiotics were used in farm animals, not humans, according to data by the FDA and QuintilesIMS.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
The vast majority of these drugs used in animals are tetracyclines, a class of antibiotics that also includes treatments for chlamydia, Lyme disease and other harmful microbes in humans.
"These are drugs that are really, in plain words, important to the functioning of human medicine as we know it," said Brook.
"What I'm mostly hoping for is that this (report) ... will inspire companies to make similar commitments really quickly."
(CNN) Tanya St. Preux went into a store to pick up some stuff -- and left with a newborn.
The Georgia woman was shopping at her neighborhood Target this week when she went into labor.
Lucky for her, Caris Lockwood happened to be there at the same time.
And Lockwood is a labor and delivery nurse.
So, right by the store's entrance, Lockwood putting her experience to work.
And with an assist from Target employees, she delivered St. Preux's baby : a healthy 7 lb.
10 oz boy.
"Caris was God-sent and amazing.
She was sweet and caring and exceeded everyone's expectations.
She went way over far and beyond," St. Preux said after the delivery, according to a statement from Piedmont Healthcare.
That's the hospital where Lockwood works.
CNN was unable to reach the new mom or Lockwood.
Read More
(CNN) A cancer cluster is suspected at a Cincinnati police headquarters building, according to the Police Department's union president.
Sergeant Dan Hils, who spoke on the steps of the headquarters Tuesday morning, called on the city's mayor and council members to relocate police officers working at the District 5 headquarters building before Christmas with a deadline of October 30 to put a plan into place.
"A number of officers started to talk to me about an unusual number of cancer deaths here in District 5," said Hils, who became union president in 2015 and has been with the Cincinnati Police Department since 1987.
"In two years, from 2015 to 2016, six officers died and they were all under the age of 60, most of them right around the age of 50, and all of them had worked in District 5," Hils told CNN before he addressed reporters at his news conference .
All six officers had worked in jobs requiring a lot of time in the office and "many had spent large portions of their careers here," he said.
"Those six people all lived very clean lives and were still young," said Hils.
He added there are a number of "living cancer cases" among others who spent significant time in the District 5 building, but he would not release the names for "privacy reasons."
Hils said the police department has five districts yet none of the other four districts has a comparable number of cancer cases.
"The Police Department and other City Departments are in the process of assessing temporary locations on a leased basis and are working toward a long-term solution as well," said Steve Saunders, a spokesman with Cincinnati Police Department, on behalf of Police Chief Eliot Isaac.
Cincinnati Councilman Charlie Winburn, who also spoke at the news conference, has requested a transfer of police personnel within 30 days.
"This has been going on and on and on," said Winburn.
"Close this place down -- close this place down now."
Pesticides and possible contamination

Anyone who visits the building at 1012 Ludlow Avenue, which is nicknamed "the three bedroom ranch," can see the problems for themselves, said Hils.
"The first problem is it just isn't big enough to house the folks and the records and all the things that we have there, which then makes it impossible to clean," said Hils.
Because of this crowding, he said, the building has had "half a dozen, at least" bed bug infestations over the past year or so.
"They're constantly throwing pesticides in here," he said.
High power lines run over the building, which sits next to an expressway that is itself beside Mill creek "which has been known as a toxic place for many, many years," said Hils.
Though named "the most endangered urban river in North America" in 1997, Mill creek has shown improved water quality in recent years, according to American Rivers , a national river conservation organization.
Add to that, there is asbestos on the boiler and there was a target range in the basement of the building up until the 1970s, "so lead contaminants are a possibility there," Hils said.
Specifying that he does not have a Ph.D., he said "common sense" indicates something is wrong at the District 5 building.
"It's like a cocktail," said Hils, who raised this issue within the police department beginning in November last year.
Spokesman Saunders confirmed that testing of the building had been done and "the results did not show anything significant that would contribute to cancer or any other serious health issues."
"Even though they can't point to one thing that's making people sick," said Hils, an "inordinate amount of officers" have become sick with cancer and at this point he just wants people out of the building.
City government, though, has been slow to act, likely because there's no "one thing."
Building is 'not ideal'

In a January 25, 2017 memo to the mayor and city council, Harry Black, city manager, acknowledged that the administration was continuing to examine the building and investigate concerns.
"Thus far, a series of internal and external inspections and tests have indicated the building is in good condition from an environmental perspective," wrote Black.
"However it is not ideal in the long term primarily due to the lack of space."
Black noted that the District 5 building was erected in 1957 and "was never intended as a permanent facility."
"It was built as a temporary headquarters required as a result of the Mill Creek Expressway construction," Black wrote of the building.
Hils said 122 police department employees are assigned to the building, though the majority are street officers who spend very little time there.
"Somewhere in the range of 30" people, investigators and administrative officers, sit at their desks most of the day "making phone calls, doing computer searches things like that," said Hils.
"It's the investigative unit where you will find a lot of those cancers," said Hils.
In an email to the mayor and city council in February, Black referenced their discussion of a temporary relocation of "all or a portion" of District 5 headquarters staff.
"Please do whatever you think makes the most sense," said Black at that time and offered his assistance with this matter.
Winburn said "this issue has been going on forever" and the administration was "stonewalling this situation."
Mentioning the fact that his wife suffered from cancer, the city councilman said the administration was "callus to this, they are not sensitive to what is going on here."
"This is a disgrace," he said.
Cancer cluster defined

To be considered a cancer cluster , a group of cancer cases must meet various criteria, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
First, the number of cases must be higher than typically observed in a similar setting -- in a group with similar population, age, race, or gender.
"All of the cases must involve the same type of cancer, or types of cancer scientifically proven to have the same cause," the CDC website reads.
Additionally, the time period and geographic area must be carefully defined when calculating both the number of cases in a suspected cluster and the number of expected cases in a comparison group.
"It is possible to "create" or "obscure" a cluster by selection of a specific area," reads the website.
The National Cancer Institute maintains that most suspected cancer clusters turn out, on detailed investigation, not to be "true cancer clusters... no cause can be identified, and the clustering of cases turns out to be a random occurrence."
'Sworn to uphold their duty'

Though many of District 5 staff have been diagnosed with cancer, Hils said, to get his point across he prefers to discuss just the six officers who died between 2015 and 2016.
"Stephanie Bradford was an investigator here for 18 years," said Hils, noting the 50-year-old died of appendix cancer.
"Darrell Chapman was in the neighborhood unit, had a lot of desk duty time and everything," said Hils.
This 59-year-old died of some sort of gastrointestinal cancer, said Hils, just like Jana Cruise, who performed a good deal of desk duty, and passed in her early 50s.
Robert McGuire, 50, "loved working the desk" and died of colon cancer, said Hils, while Anthony Wagers, 53, died of a rare stomach cancer following years of administrative duty in District 5.
Ingrid Weber, 51, died of lymphoma following her stint in the investigative unit.
"Almost all of them had [gastrointestinal] types of cancer," said Hils, who said he reported this cluster to the Cincinnati Department of Health.
"I've talked to everyone who would listen," said Hils, who is clearly disappointed in the lack of response.
The department of health did not return a request to comment from CNN.
"I wanted to press the button and get them out of here," said Hils.
A recent diagnosis of cancer in another officer "made me regret that I backed off," he said.
"I want that to be their Christmas present -- to have another place to go."
Asked whether police officers might strike if his demands are not met, Hils said "the men and women are sworn to uphold their duty.
They're not allowed to take those actions."
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
With a mayoral election in November, the timing may appear political, said Hils, but it's more a matter of family members reaching out to him and asking him to resolve this situation.
"Do politics really matter right now?"
said Hils.
"There's elections -- and then there's life and death."
(CNN) Whether school years were socially awkward or the happiest days of your life, this time (hopefully) brings back lifelong memories and a tinge of nostalgia for the majority of grown-ups.
It was also likely a time defined by strict timetables, rigid lessons, and unforgiving homework.
Testing, too, was probably a big part of anyone's educational experience no matter where they lived.
Depending on how well one performed on tests, it often meant certain doors were open -- or closed.
Imagine a school now, though, where students choose their own curriculum and teachers are more like mentors guiding them through activities and topics of interest.
Instead of homework and tests, portfolios and exhibitions would display your films, writing, art, and creations, and you were constantly encouraged to keep doing more.
A new wave of schools are increasing in number, particularly in the U.S., many of them flipping the traditional style of schooling to a more personalized-style of education.
A little girl plays at the Portfolio school, which opened a year ago.
A new type of school

Portfolio School is a project-based start-up school in New York's Tribeca neighborhood, which emphasizes guided choice and a personalized education, mixing technology with learning activities.
The school calls itself a "micro-school", which aims to broaden a child's creativity and is based on the philosophy that children need an interdisciplinary model of learning.
Currently, the school has 19 students ranging from ages 5-10 in a single open-plan multi-purpose space with plans to grow to 80 in two years.
Portfolio says its research-based approach is reinventing everything -- from the curriculum, space design, classroom management, schedule, the role of teachers and a student's engagement with the outside world.
One way of achieving self-motivation is by giving power to the students, said Nancy Otero, a former software engineer who is the director of research and learning design at Portfolio.
"Our school is more like a studio.
Things are open all the time.
We have drills, 3D printers.
We give them these powerful tools, where they can code and construct," said Otero.
Children at Portfolio learn to build and assemble, using all sorts of tools.
Kids can make things out of plaster, they can speak, write, make videos.
"Technology is not viewed as something frightening.
It's one of multiple tools," said Dr. Shira Leibowitz, director of the lower school at Portfolio.
At traditional schools, there isn't much time for most of this.
"You need large amounts of time to tinker and play and those schedules (of traditional schools) are very conforming," said Leibowitz.
There's a policy of no homework at Portfolio.
"Research has shown it's not a useful thing.
Some of the kids start not wanting to learn so much (with homework)," said Otero.
What's more, says Leibowitz, kids have time to be with their families, time to nurture friendships.
"It's not for everybody, it's very different, but part of what makes it work is that the families are here by choice."
Photos: Bangladesh, solar-powered floating schools  All around the world, schools are reinventing education.
During monsoon season in Bangladesh, almost one third of the country is flooded, making school attendance next to impossible.
Nonprofit Shidhulai Swanirvar Sangstha came up with a way to bring education to the children most affected: by creating solar-paneled floating schools.
Each morning, the elementary schools travel to different communities, picking up children along the way.
The boats then docks and teach up to 30 children at a time.
The schools contain a laptop, hundreds of books and electronic resources powered by energy generated from the solar panels.
Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: UK, virtual reality  Immersive technology is having a big moment in education right now, making its way into classrooms around the world.
Among those adopting the technology is Sevenoaks School , in the UK, which has introduced VR into its classrooms for a range of subjects including art, history and geography.
Students are using the technology to go on virtual field trips and creating three dimensional paintings that move.
Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Bali, going green  As the Green School in Bali demonstrates, innovation doesn't always equal technology.
Nestled between rainforests and made entirely from bamboo, the school's mission is to educate its students about sustainability by using a holistic approach.
Students from nursery to high school learn how to be more environmentally-conscious while studying traditional topics like math and languages.
The Green School boasts a diverse student body from all over the world and aims to create the next generation of green leaders.
The school runs on three simple principles: be local, let the environment lead and think of your grandchildren's future.
Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Ghana, empower playgrounds  In many parts of rural Ghana, electricity is either limited or unavailable.
Students in these areas are unable to study after it gets dark, which hinders their chances of getting into a secondary school.
So Empower Playgrounds created merry-go-rounds that use the children's energy to charge a battery, which then powers a small lantern.
Each recharge lasts for over 40 hours and allows students to study in the evening.
Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: Canada, paper and desk-free classrooms  It's hard to imagine a classroom without desks and paper but it's now a reality.
In some schools in Canada and the U.S., for example, recent trends of creating more comfortable and open classrooms have seen traditional desks disappear.
Instead, bouncy balls, bean bags and seating mats having taken their place, while iPads and computers replace traditional pen and paper.
Students submit their work via different tools, such as Google Classroom, and teachers are able to give feedback and mark assignments in real time.
Even chalkboards and whiteboards are being replaced by interactive smartboards.
Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Netherlands, personalized learning  Steve Jobs Schools are inspired by, but not affiliated with, the Apple founder.
Their philosophy is to encourage personalized learning by giving their students, all of primary age, more control.
Pupils choose which subjects they study, how they want to learn and at what pace.
Teachers are known as coaches and students are grouped not by age but by their strengths and interests.
Schedules are flexible and students are each given an iPad.
Starting out in the Netherlands, they opened a school in Johannesburg in 2016.
Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Sweden, gender-neutral schools  At Egalia preschool in Stockholm, the words "he" and "her" are never used.
Boys can play with dolls and girls with firetrucks.
There are no designated areas for each gender and books are carefully selected to avoid traditional stereotyping.
Egalia and other similar preschools in Sweden, reject gender stereotypes and hope to help children fight societal gender norms, which they believe can hinder growth and acceptance.
Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: Singapore, robot teachers  Pepper is a robot that interacts with students and answers their questions.
Introduced last year as part of a pilot project in Singapore, Pepper helped preschool teachers deliver lessons and told pupils stories.
Teachers reported that the robot helped shy students come out of their shell and created a fun, interactive atmosphere to learn in.
Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Denmark, forest preschools  While nature-centered schools are not uncommon around the world, in Denmark teaching children the importance of Mother Nature starts at a very young age.
According to the Danish Forest and Nature Agency, over 10 percent of Danish preschools are located in forests or other natural settings.
These schools use their surroundings as teaching tools, where eating organic food, hiking and raising chickens are all part of the daily lessons.
Proponents of forest preschools say that children develop better motor skills when there is more space and time to play in nature rather than sitting in a classroom.
Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: USA, the world as your classroom  Students at the THINK Global School in New York spend each semester in a different nation.
They learn languages and in each new place they visit, they work with local experts to gain insights into the historical, cultural, and socioeconomic aspects of their host country.
Destinations for the 2018-19 school year include India, Botswana, Japan and Spain.
Hide Caption 10 of 10

Schools created by technology experts

Other similar schools in the U.S. -- mainly clustered around, unsurprisingly, California's Silicon Valley -- have cropped up thanks to parents who have worked in technology.
Co-founder and CEO of Portfolio, Babur Habib, and co-founder Doug Schachtel, who runs operations of the school, came up with the idea for Portfolio over a game of squash at their alma mater Princeton University.
Both have had successful careers and now have young children and felt there needed to be something different, something that wasn't already available.
AltSchool was created by a former Google executive who felt frustrated by school choice for his own kids.
In a similar way, the California-based AltSchool is a group of micro-schools founded by former Google executive Max Ventilla.
His financial supporters include Mark Zuckerberg among many other Silicon Valley executives.
AltSchool now has schools in California and New York.
In Boston, former Google executive Sep Kamvar started Wildflower School in 2014 after it evolved from a project within the MIT Media Lab.
It has grown to many more locations since.
Stripping away the old-school methods

By taking away the traditional U.S. grading system of A, B, C, D, F, Portfolio say it's liberating students instead of holding them back.
"There's no end limit.
In a traditional school if you get an A+, that's it.
We've taken away that ceiling so that they (students) keep going.
We keep stretching," said Leibowitz.
Children independently problem solve on walls made of whiteboards.
Instead of the typical pat on the back, Leibowitz said she and her team are constantly giving feedback so students can get better and better.
"There's this culture of 'we're so lucky, we can make it better'."
We've created an environment which does two things, said co-founder Doug Schachtel.
Portfolio fosters creativity and innovation by enabling students to pursue their interests and giving them space and time to go explore them, he said.
The school also ensures students learn the core skills of reading, writing and math at their own pace.
"We've achieved this innovation not through a software program but being really thoughtful about all the aspects of school," he said, when asked about other similar schools.
Parents stamp of approval

One mother of twins who attend Portfolio, Georgia Marantos, said she makes the journey from uptown to downtown Manhattan every day (with a toddler in tow also) as she liked the school so much.
Her son saw an exhibit at the school where students had created their own ice cream machine.
"He said, 'I want to do that'."
Only 19 students currently attend the Portfolio School, but it plans to have 80 students in two years.
"That's an opportunity that would never have been there in any other classroom," said Marantos, describing the positive shift away from being the kid who gets the award or the best grades in class to the one who's creating something incredible.
"I thought, yeah, let's do that."
Another mother at the school agrees.
"Portfolio believes every child is a genius.
They don't dumb down the content because of their age and they stretch the kids beyond their comfort zone.
At the same time, the teachers know the kids well and recognize each has different strengths and weaknesses, and they challenge them with great compassion," said Jackie Tian.
Finding the right balance

Some say it's too early to know what results will be seen from experimental schools.
"There's a lot of great innovation in schools right now.
Project-based learning can intrinsically motivate students to be creative and explore their own interests -- not just for the sake of a test score or grade.
We do a disservice to students though if we shortchange foundational learning.
There needs to be a balance," said Karyn Wynn, a school administrator based in Palo Alto, California.
"Learning driven by genuine inquiry sparks a child's mind," says Wynn.
"There are also times when you need to rework an essay for the third time or struggle through a proof.
Students need to build these muscles to persevere as well."
With a balanced approach, Wynn praises project-based learning.
She says the current system of rigid testing causes too much pressure and the stakes are "ridiculously" high.
"It's great to have more creative energy in the education field.
We do need to reimagine what is possible," she added.
San Juan, Puerto Rico (CNN) The US Army has delivered a three-day supply of fuel to a San Juan, Puerto Rico, children's hospital where patients were in danger due a diesel shortage.
The lives of 12 pediatric patients at San Jorge Children's Hospital were at risk after extensive damage to the US island territory's fuel supply infrastructure, a hospital administrator said Tuesday.
The children depend on ventilators to survive, according to Domingo Cruz Vivaldi, executive director of the San Jorge Children's Hospital.
But a shortage of diesel, which powers generators, meant that the ventilators had to run on batteries for eight hours Monday and supply was still limited.
Cruz Vivaldi said Wednesday the medical emergency has been averted for now.
San Jorge Children's Hospital is the largest private children's medical center in the Caribbean.
Before Hurricane Maria hit the island, the children's hospital had about 90 patients, according to Cruz Vivaldi.
They discharged 30 who were in stable condition and are currently treating 60 who need to remain hospitalized.
"Right now, we only have diesel for today and tomorrow.
We're already working on refueling our tanks so we can extend our power generating capability, which is at 50% right now," Cruz Vivaldi said Tuesday.
Lack of power and water has severely weakened the ability to treat patients at dozens of hospitals around the island.
CNN visited a local clinic in Yabucoa, a coastal community on the island's southeast, that was hit by the eye of the hurricane.
A local official said the clinic is not currently operational.
Medical personnel are sending patients to the nearest medical facility, located in the nearby city of Caguas.
An unfolding medical crisis

The death toll from Hurricane Maria currently stands at 16.
Authorities have not released information about the number of people who were injured during and after the hurricane.
A medical crisis is unfolding around the island.
Many people hurt during the hurricane have yet to be treated.
The lack of power puts dialysis patients at risk, and diabetes patients may lose their insulin supply for lack of refrigeration.
Dr. Israel Ayala Oliveras, medical director at the Puerto Rico Medical Center, said people are showing up there with all kinds of injuries related to the hurricane.
"We're treating lacerations, concussions, deep cut wounds and others caused by flying objects.
People have also gotten hurt by falling around their homes or when using or operating chainsaws and machetes as they try to clear access to their homes," Ayala said.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Carmen Gutirrez Molero, an 86-year-old woman who lives in the Caparra district in Guaynabo, said a gas line that broke during the hurricane caused an explosion in her kitchen.
"I got up at eight and went to the kitchen for some coffee.
When I lighted a match, the stove exploded and burned my feet.
Thank God it was only my feet and nothing more.
I jumped the best I could and was able to get outside," she said.
Lefty Rodrguez suffered two ripped tendons in his arm after the hurricane blew open the front door of his house.
"It all happened suddenly.
I was near the door and it suddenly opened.
When I saw it was coming toward me I tried to hold it, but ... boom!
That's when it got my arm," Rodrguez said.
The Puerto Rico Medical Center implemented a contingency plan to treat hurricane victims before Maria hit the island.
Ayala said the flow of patients has increased by dozens.
Still many roads are impassable, preventing many people from reaching medical facilities.
The local department of health also installed two mobile hospitals with tents where basic surgeries and first aid can be offered to patients.
(CNN) Erika Navarro said she had been on FaceTime with her grandfather, Miguel Antonio Franco, on September 5 -- his 93rd birthday.
Navarro, her grandfather and her mother had birthdays a few days apart and a joint party was in the works.
"I told him, 'Grandpa, I'll be coming in a week to celebrate our birthdays and to see you again,' " Navarro said Monday at a news conference in south Florida about a wrongful death lawsuit her family has filed.
"He just said, 'Hurry up and get here so we can sit down chat and play dominoes.'
"

Choking back tears, Navarro said, "He was healthy.
To know that someone you love is healthy and you were almost there to see them, and a tragedy like this happens, how do you explain or help yourself know they are gone?"
Franco's family late last week filed a wrongful death and negligence lawsuit against the nursing home, alleging the facility failed to provide proper air conditioning and that patients suffered for days because of sweltering temperatures resulting from loss of power to AC units.
It also claims the nursing home failed to make timely calls for emergency assistance.
The lawsuit also alleges the nursing home didn't provide proper care to Miguel Franco's wife, Cecilia Franco, 90, who also lived in the nursing home.
She survived but was hospitalized in serious condition, the family said.
'Deepest sympathy'

Lawyers for The Rehabilitation Center at Hollywood Hills could not immediately be reached for comment on the lawsuit, which seeks unspecified damages.
Earlier, the nursing home issued this statement: "The Rehabilitation Center at Hollywood Hills expresses its deepest sympathy to the family members of the residents who passed away following a prolonged outage of our air conditioning system due to Hurricane Irma."
Nursing home officials have said they were in constant contact with state and local authorities and took steps to provide cooling devices inside.
The exact cause of the 11 deaths has not been reported, but a number of the 141 residents who were evacuated were treated for heat-related issues.
'Absolutely stunning'

The lawyer for Franco's family, Curtis Miner, said his death was avoidable.
Irma wreaked havoc in less developed places in the Caribbean, but none recorded a tragedy on the level of the nursing home, he said.
"It is absolutely stunning to us the nursing home was so unprepared for what would inevitably happen with Hurricane Irma and it is absolutely stunning to us they did not take emergency action when this tragedy began to unfold," Miner said.
"This is something that could have been prevented," said Pedro Franco, the deceased man's son.
"All they had to do was call 911."
The deaths are part of an ongoing criminal investigation, the Hollywood Police Department said.
Meanwhile, state and federal agencies are conducting administrative investigations.
The storm hit on September 10 and the power to the air conditioning went out, according to the lawsuit filed Friday in Broward County Circuit Court.
The nursing home didn't have a generator-powered air conditioning system to keep the building cool in case of a power outage, the suit says.
The nursing home staff didn't evacuate the patients to the hospital across the street but "wheeled many of the residents into the hallway, undressed some of them and left them to remain there, trapped in the sweltering heat," the suit says.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
A call to 911 was placed at 1:30 a.m. September 13 after a patient went into cardiac distress, the lawsuit says.
The lawsuit doesn't identify the caller, but a timeline provided by The Rehabilitation Center at Hollywood Hills says the nursing home made the call, as well as two other 911 calls over the next few hours.
The governor's office said any calls came too late.
"This facility is failing to take responsibility for the fact that they delayed calling 911 and made the decision to not evacuate their patients to one of the largest hospitals in Florida, which is directly across the street," Gov.
Rick Scott said in a statement.
The evacuation of patients started about 6:30 a.m. that day, the nursing home's timeline says, adding, "Up to and through the evacuation, protocol was followed."
City and state officials said they were in contact with the nursing home for three days after the storm hit and advised them to call 911 if they believed that the health or safety of patients was at risk.
JUST WATCHED Scene of nursing home deaths cited for past violations Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Scene of nursing home deaths cited for past violations 03:13

Nursing home administrator Jorge Carballo said the center immediately contacted Florida Power & Light on September 10 and continued to follow up with the utility for status updates on when repairs to the transformer that powered the air-conditioning system would be made.
The nursing home, in a timeline, said it began using 10 portable units on September 10.
The facility said an official with its parent company made calls on that Monday and Tuesday to several state agencies to report the problem.
Workers at the facility got more portable air conditioners from a nearby hospital, the facility's timeline says.
Deleted voicemails

At their news conference, the family was asked to respond to reports that Scott or his office had deleted four voicemails the nursing home left on Scott's personal cell phone.
The governor provided that number to law enforcement, emergency services and nursing homes during the storm.
"I don't even know what to think of it," Navarro said.
"Why delete something, whether he thought it was important or not."
She said she didn't know what the messages said.
Nursing home officials have not provided details about what information was in the voice messages.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Scott's office issued a statement about the deleted voicemails.
"The voicemails were not retained because the information from each voicemail was collected by the Governor's staff and given to the proper agency for handling.
Every call was returned.
The information collected from the voicemails was released to the public this week, along with over 150 pages of other documents.
"This is in line with the state's record retention policy and Florida law.
... None of this changes the fact that this facility chose not to call 911 or evacuate their patients to the hospital across the street to save lives."
Story highlights Cheese contains important nutrients, but calories and sodium can add up

Experts suggest using it as a flavor enhancer rather than the focus of a meal

(CNN) Yes, cheese is nutrient-rich -- and tasty -- but it's best to consume it in small portions.
"Cheese does contain some important nutrients, including calcium and protein, along with vitamin B12 and zinc.
However, the calories can add up quickly if you aren't mindful," said Kelly Pritchett, a registered dietitian and spokeswoman for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics.
Softer cheeses tend to have fewer calories than hard cheeses: an ounce of whole-milk ricotta (approximately 2 tablespoons) has about 50 calories, an ounce of feta has 75 calories, and an ounce of whole-milk mozzarella has 85 calories.
But an ounce of Swiss (one slice) has 108 calories, and an ounce of cheddar has 114 calories (picture about a one-inch cube, depending on the kind).
For the same calories, you can have a cup of black bean soup and probably feel just as full.
Cheese is also high in saturated fat, which is known to increase LDL cholesterol, the "bad" cholesterol.
In fact, cheese is one of the biggest sources of saturated fat in the US diet

Read More
(CNN) Ask a group of New Jersey fifth and sixth graders about the differences between girls and boys, and at first it gets a tad uncomfortable.
"That would be kind of awkward," said Tyler Schlegel, who is in his last year at Lincoln Elementary School in Caldwell, New Jersey.
Once I clarified that I wasn't interested in the physical contrasts, but wanted to know if he and his classmates thought there were other differences between boys and girls, he relaxed quite a bit.
"Oh, that makes more sense," he said.
I asked gender questions such as: Who is smarter?
Who raise their hands more?
Who is better at sports: girls or boys?
"Boys get in trouble more but it depends who it is," said Schlegel.
"Girls, I know, like to wear makeup, a lot of them, and boys don't," said Toniann Garruto, a fifth grader.
"In the classroom, there is definitely more gossip with the girls," said Casey Wescott, who just started middle school.
"Boys are usually stronger or faster, that's what my brother likes to say," added Fiona Laddey, another fifth grader.
As they answered, you could hear stereotypes already forming, even in elementary school, which was not a surprise to Katie Hurley, a child and adolescent psychotherapist, writer, speaker and author.
Children are internalizing the messages they hear from their parents and teachers and see on television and in video games, movies and music, she said.
"The best thing parents can do is really poke holes in all those things," said Hurley, whose books include "The Happy Kid Handbook: How to Raise Joyful Children in a Stressful World."
"Instead of hiding all the magazines with the ads that make you shake your head and think that's not what women look like, open those magazines, point out those ads and say, 'Can you believe this?
Tell me what you think is wrong with this picture.
What do women really look like?'
"

Stereotypes set in at an early age

According to a recent report by Common Sense Media, " Watching Gender: How Stereotypes in Movies and on TV Impact Kids' Development," gender stereotypes play a big role in teaching boys and girls what the culture expects of them.
Children between the ages of 2 and 6 learn stereotypes about toys, skills and activities that are typically associated with each gender, according to the analysis of more than 150 articles, interviews, books and other research.
Kids between the ages of 7 and 10 start to attribute certain qualities to women and men, such as that men are aggressive and women are emotional.
"Sadly, the stereotypes that we see in media are very problematic and as big business continues to market specifically for girls and boys, gender-based norms are only becoming more ingrained," Jayneen Sanders , an author, publisher and advocate for gender equality education at home and in schools, said in an email.
"Our girls see little choice other than pink and 'cute' in (the) girl's section and our boys see no other choice than blue or grey and 'rough and tumble' in the boy's section," said Sanders, author of several books for children including "No Difference Between Us."
This gender stereotyping continues to be reinforced "every hour of every day" online, on television and in games, songs and books.
"And because the adults in these children's lives see and perpetuate the same messages, gender stereotyping continues to be reinforced in our homes and classrooms," said Sanders.
Hurley, the psychotherapist, said she regularly tears out ads from magazines and uses them as a discussion point in her groups focusing on girls and their empowerment.
Her daughter once came to her laughing after she saw a woman in skinny jeans and stilettos mopping the floor.
"We always say this for girls, it's becoming somewhat commonplace with girls: 'Let's break apart the media.
Let's poke the holes.
Let's say princesses aren't real,' " said Hurley.
"But we have to do it with boys too because you see these male advertisements for power protein things and these impossibly muscled enormous men with no shirts on and we have to see that for boys, too.
We have to give them the same opportunity to say, 'Hey, this is not what every man in the world looks like.'
"

'Boys will be boys' and 'Girls will be girls'

Parents can help teach their kids about gender equality by never using gender as an excuse for behavior, experts say.
"Do boys roughhouse?
Sure, but so do girls," said Hurley.
"I have a son and a daughter and my daughter is way more a roughhouser than my son."
And, just as we associate rough play and being aggressive with boys, we are quick to give girls the "mean girl" label, she said.
"I hear this all the time from girls, 'Well, my mom told me she's a mean girl' or 'She's one of the mean girls' and we have to stop saying that," said Hurley, whose newest book, due out in the winter, "No More Mean Girls: The Secret to Raising Strong, Confident and Compassionate Girls," is all about the need to move away from the mean girl narrative to raise empathetic and compassionate young people.
"One of the biggest things we do is we put kids in a box, girls in one box and boys in another ... and then the two boxes we create are negatively charged," she said.
"We're kind of like challenging them to live up to it."
Then, when we get to the college level and we hear about sexual assaults on campus, we ask ourselves, "Why is this happening?"
said Hurley.
She argues it's because children have been raised with a message that "boys will be boys."
"They've been learning that since they were 5," she added.
Sanders said parents and teachers should make sure they are not reinforcing traditional gender roles.
Girls can take out the garbage, boys can do dishes, she said.
Let both boys and girls know it's OK to express and discuss their feelings and emotions and to cry when they are sad.
Take advantage of teaching moments, such as when a child says a girl can't play with the boys because it's a "boy's game" said Sanders.
"Never stereotype children's traits such as boys are loud and noisy, girls are calm and sweet, and call out relatives and teachers who do so.
Monitor your own interactions with boys and girls and comfort a boy as you would a girl if they are sad or unhappy," she said.
Point to role models

Another way to really smash gender stereotypes, both Hurley and Sanders say, is to discuss traditional male and female employment roles and show kids the opposite, such as a woman who's a firefighter or a man who's a nurse.
Hurley said parents can talk with their kids about everyday heroes, such as the teacher down the street, male or female, and talk about what he or she is doing to raise and educate children, or the firefighters, police officers, nurses and doctors in their neighborhood.
"How can we use those people as role models because then we can start describing boys and girls differently," said Hurley.
"If I were to describe you to my daughter as I'm getting off this phone from the interview, I would say, 'Wow.
You wouldn't believe how intelligent and empowering this woman is, what she is doing to help educate people through CNN,' " she said.
"That's what you do.
You have to shift your language, really, and think about it because girls still hear that girls are pretty and girls are polite and girls are kind.
And boys still hear that they are strong and they are rambunctious and they like aliens.
So we have to be careful of that, but then we also have to break it down."
So at what age can you start trying to teach your children about gender equality?
Sanders says the education can begin as soon as they are born.
"Once you see gender stereotyping in society, you can't un-see it," she said.
So from day one, parents should provide daughters and sons with toys and books where girls and boys are heroes and have adventures and select clothing for girls and boys that doesn't sync up with what society dictates.
Hurley agreed and said the "younger the better" as far as beginning conversations about gender.
Often, when she leads her girl empowerment groups, some parents will say they don't want her to use certain words or cover certain subjects, fearing their daughter isn't ready for that discussion.
"I always listen to their concerns and then I say, 'Listen, the more information we give kids and the more we bring it down to their level, the more empowered they are to make changes," said Hurley.
When you tell a group of 10-year-old girls that boys get dramatically more attention from teachers than girls, "they're horrified but then they say, 'Oh yes, because I raise my hand and I don't get called on, or if I accidentally forget to raise my hand, I get in trouble.
But if a boy next to me does that, he just gets a reminder,' " said Hurley.
"So kids are feeling this from very young ages on up.
They're already feeling it, so we might as well talk about it.
I always say to parents: just honest communication is the single best parenting tool out there in the universe."
Our kids do seem to get it -- at least when it comes to the messages they will give their own children -- as evidenced by the New Jersey elementary and middle school kids we interviewed for a video series, "If I Were a Parent."
When I asked them if they would tell their sons and daughters that girls and boys are different, they unanimously said they would tell their kids that girls and boys are equal.
"There are no differences, like the election, that was a great thing," said Casey Wescott.
"There was a boy versus a girl and you don't look at their gender.
You look at who they are as a person, what they think, like there is no superior gender."
Toniann Garruto said she would tell her children they can do anything they want to do.
"Just because they're boys and girls doesn't mean they can't do the same things and they can't like the same things."
Lance Jenkins, a sixth grader, said he would tell his sons and daughters to never doubt themselves.
"Just because a man did this doesn't mean you can't do it too ... or a girl did this doesn't mean you can't do it," he said.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Sean Wescott, another sixth grader, said he would tell his kids that "some girls are better at some things and some boys are better than girls at other things."
Grace Szostak, who also just started middle school, said she would tell her kids that boys and girls are more alike than different.
"And so girls can be like a scientist or a brilliant writer," she said, agreeing they can be anything they want to be.
"They can even play football."
Added Sanders, "Children are not born thinking one gender is better and more powerful than another.
They are born thinking there is no difference between us."
The 21-year-old senior at UCLA remembers it being worse in her freshman and sophomore years.
When she got into this mode, she might not eat anything all day, except for some Twizzlers.
Fears of failure crept in, and life became overwhelming.
"As I got older, I realized I have to take care of myself," Szmyrgala said.
"Even in those finals weeks, there needs to be some semblance of normal life, otherwise it feels unbearable."
This week, about 10,000 new students begin the fall quarter at UCLA, and many will come to experience the same anxieties as Szmyrgala.
Some will have an even harder time adjusting to college life, perhaps plunging into severe depression or self-destructive thoughts.
Hoping to head off depression and reduce the stigma of seeking help, UCLA Chancellor Gene Block announced last week that the school will offer voluntary mental health screenings to all incoming students -- freshmen and transfer students.
New student orientation on campus typically involves various activities meant to ease the transition to college -- dorm parties, talks with advisers as well as webinars on drinking and sexual conduct.
In recognition of the stress that sometimes comes with such a transition, UCLA is adding screening for depression into the mix.
"To our knowledge, no other university has ever attempted screening of this nature and scale," Block said during a speech at the One Mind Initiative in Napa Valley.
"Students who choose to participate will be screened for depression and related traits -- anxiety, mania and suicidal tendencies.
And we will offer help to those who need it."
Block said that depression affects 350 million people worldwide.
"In terms of dollar costs to society, depression is one of the most expensive diseases we face.
The human toll is terrible.
It affects all ages and all backgrounds.
It is pervasive," Block said.
The screening is free and voluntary.
It consists of a brief online survey that takes only a few minutes.
People who need and want help can take a free eight-week cognitive behavioral treatment online, a self-guided program that helps a person identify their problem areas and teaches them to think and, therefore, react differently.
If the student has greater needs, he or she will be referred elsewhere or treated within the UCLA clinic network.
Gavin Andrews, a professor of psychiatry at the University of New South Wales in Australia, developed the online treatment

Screening for depression in college is important, not just because university life can be filled with stress but because depression can seriously dampen students' futures, affecting their academic performance, career outlook and relationships, experts said.
"College age is when there is a lot of attention to student potential.
It is when the adult trajectory becomes set," said Nelson Freimer, a UCLA professor of psychiatry and bio-behavioral sciences who is leading the UCLA "Depression Grand Challenge," of which the screening is a part.
"If you become derailed, it can be really hard to get back on track."
Of course, depression at any age is troubling.
"Developing depression at age 60 is a terrible thing, but you have already established your life trajectory," Freimer said.
The screenings will eventually be available to the entire student body, but they will be directed to the incoming freshmen and transfer students first because it is easier to reach them through the many orientation activities, Freimer said.
Mindful that serious mental health problems often emerge in college, other schools also have undertaken innovative depression research and interventions.
Duke University's depression research has shown that by building stronger relationships with professors, college students are better able to cope with the stress of school.
Researchers also have found that students who learn how to be compassionate with themselves are less likely to spiral downward when they don't get that perfect score on an exam, for example.
Larry Moneta, vice president for student affairs at Duke, said the North Carolina school has mindfulness mediation classes that help students learn this "self-compassion."
Moneta said he admires UCLA for taking on such a large endeavor.
He noted that a lot of students think about suicide -- some casually, some not.
It is the second-leading cause of death for college-age adults, he said.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"I think there is going be much higher numbers [of students] who need treatment than they expect," Moneta said.
"We will be watching UCLA very carefully to see if it has utility.
... And to see if it reduces the tragic results associated with depression."
Last year, Szmyrgala, the UCLA senior, joined the Resilience Peer Network, a program to support students with mental health issues.
Part of the training was undergoing the school's cognitive behavioral therapy treatment online.
She said she learned to challenge her dark thoughts.
"I was always thinking about the future.
If I got a bad grade in this class, how will this affect my future and what job will I get?"
she said.
Instead, she said, she learned to ask herself, "What evidence is there for these negative ideas?"
Since July, the 33-year-old mother of a severely disabled boy has been trying to meet with her senator, Bill Cassidy, R-Louisiana.
This year, she and other mothers of children with disabilities took a bus from Baton Rouge, Louisiana, to Washington to speak with their congressional representatives.
She failed to meet with elected officials at the time.
Now, she feels even greater urgency to meet with Cassidy, who is a physician.
Michot's 5-year-old son, Gabriel, was born 13 weeks early, and while the Michots have private insurance, Gabriel's medical bills are so high that they also get help from Medicaid.
The Graham-Cassidy bill , the GOP's latest effort to repeal Obamacare, which the Louisiana lawmaker co-sponsored, calls for dramatic cuts in Medicaid.
On Thursday, Michot and others met with a Cassidy staff member at his Baton Rouge office.
She says she left the meeting dissatisfied.
"We shouldn't have to fight politicians for survival," Michot said.
"We should only have to fight for our kids to survive medically and be healthy."
Ty Bofferding, Cassidy's spokesman, told CNN that the new health care bill "upholds our commitment to take care of our most vulnerable by putting Medicaid back on a sustainable, long-term path."
He added that the bill ensures "that those with pre-existing conditions will have access to both adequate and affordable health insurance coverage."
'No protection'

The preterm births of Gabriel and his twin brother, Michael, caused complex health conditions for both children, including bronchopulmonary dysplasia.
This chronic lung disease makes it hard to breathe.
Michael died of the condition around age 1, while Gabriel lives with a tube, called a trach, surgically placed in the front of his neck to help him breathe.
Medicaid pays for the ventilator Gabe needs to assist him.
Medicaid also pays for nurses to come to the house.
"He receives 12 hours a day, seven days a week of home health nursing," said Michot, a resident of Laplace, Louisiana.
"He currently has two support workers.
They do tasks from bathing to keeping him occupied so I can clean the house, wash dishes, spend time with my daughter."
The proposed health care legislation has Michot worried.
"Everything we're reading about this bill says that it's going to cut the federal funding," she said.
She fears that less federal funding would ultimately mean fewer services for children with disabilities.
Graham-Cassidy would reduce funding for Medicaid through a per-capita cap, according to Diane Rowland, executive vice president of Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonprofit focused on national health issues.
The legislation would send the states a fixed amount of money per Medicaid enrollee, known as a per-capita cap, starting in 2020.
Although the law would protect some disability programs, Medicaid spending for disabled children who are covered through waivers is subject to the caps, Rowland wrote in an email.
Gabe, Michot said, "wouldn't survive the per-capita caps: That's one surgery, and it's gone.
He would meet that cap."
Over time, Rowland wrote, the Graham-Cassidy bill will reduce federal funding for Medicaid and leave states to make the decision on what to cut as they try to balance their budgets.
"There is no protection on where the state will have to turn to cut dollars," Rowland wrote.
"So essentially, this provision doesn't protect disabled children from having their coverage, benefits, or services reduced or eliminated."
Michot told the health care staffer that "y'all know" the only two items the state will consider cutting will be education and health care.
"Unfortunately, many, many people are pro-education," Michot said.
"And many, many people think that people on Medicaid mooch off the state: They just take services, but they don't give back."
'Our lives would be devastated'

Last year, Michot and Angla Lorio, another mother of a disabled child, co-founded the Trach Mommas of Louisiana , a peer support organization for parents of children with tracheostomy.
As a member of Louisiana's Emergency Management Disability Aging Coalition, the group recently participated in relief efforts for the victims of natural disasters.
"We served a lot of people during the great flood last year, and then we reached out to Texas (this year)," Michot proudly told the staffer.
She said she would not have been able to do that without Medicaid.
"The staff that Gabriel has provided for him through Medicaid allows him to not only live but to thrive," she said.
"It allows him to function at the best level possible and to have some normalcy despite his medical complexities.
"If home health care was taken away, our life would be devastated."
In July, Michot and other parents of children with disabilities chartered a bus in Baton Rouge and headed to Washington to protest proposed cuts to Medicaid.
Despite their best efforts, the families were unable to meet with their elected officials.
Because the health care bill under review at that time did not pass, no budget cuts were made.
Though relieved, Michot and others felt and continue to feel nervous about what's to come.
Bofferding said Cassidy's staffers "have met with Ms. Michot and members of her organization on multiple occasions in both Louisiana and Washington, D.C."

"The bus trip, the long-term advocacy -- it's all worth it because it's my son's life," Michot said.
"It's the lives of his friends; it's the lives of my peers.
It's the lives of our friends.
You can't put a price tag on that, so it is worth it."
Still, she admits feeling "disappointed" in the meeting with Cassidy's staffer.
"We wanted to know some more specifics on the per-capita caps, on pre-existing conditions , because that's something Sen. Cassidy committed to, and that's something he seemed to like from the Affordable Care Act," Michot said.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Since Michot cannot afford to care for her son without Medicaid, the Graham-Cassidy bill could take away his ability to live, she said, and she's not speaking "dramatically."
"It would either be foster care or institutionalization or death," Michot said.
"We live with life and death."
"I'm very upset with Sen. Cassidy as a physician," she said.
"He should know better."
Speaking for the other families in Trach Mommas, Michot said, "We want to keep our kids alive.
We want to keep our kids thriving through occupational therapy, physical therapy, speech therapy.
"We want them to be productive members of society, but most of all, we want them to live."
I am an Eeyore; I know this.
I'm a glass-half-empty, worst-case-scenario, dwell-on-the-imperfections, existential-dread ruminating worrywart, and I envy the people I encounter who seem to effortlessly exude perkiness and fun.
That's not to say there's no joy in my life; it just doesn't come as naturally to me as it appears to for others.
And yet despite fully meeting the textbook definition of "the opposite of an optimist," I've never thought to label myself a pessimist.
In large part, that's because of the baggage associated with the term.
In America, the tyranny of positivity reigns supreme, so much so that I often find myself worrying about how much I worry.
I worry about my gloomy outlook because of how strongly our culture emphasizes the value of a positive one.
And I worry about the ways that all my worrying could potentially affect my health and the health of those around me.
pessimism kills.
Just a few months ago, the New York Times declared that "studies have shown an indisputable link between having a positive outlook and health benefits like lower blood pressure, less heart disease, better weight control and healthier blood sugar levels."
Plenty of news articles present similar ideas in a stark black-and-white fashion: optimists live longer

But some research suggests that things aren't so simple.
In 2016, for example, a study of more than 700,000 British women failed to find a link between happiness and longevity.
Which raises the question: What makes this particular group of study participants any different?
Could it be that culture plays a role -- that British people, overall, are just more tolerant and accepting of gloominess?
Now, new research seems to show that cultural perceptions of mental states may indeed mediate their physical effect.
In a study published last month in the journal Psychological Science, a team of psychologists from the University of Wisconsin-Madison reported that positivity was related to improved health markers in Americans, but not in Japanese people.
The study authors analyzed health data from 1,017 American and 374 Japanese people, taken from the Midlife in the United States and Midlife in Japan studies, both funded by the National Institute on Aging.
Participants reported how frequently they had felt ten different positive emotions in the previous 30 days, and blood samples were taken to measure lipid levels, an indicator of heart health.
Even after accounting for things like a person's age, gender, socioeconomic status, and chronic health conditions, there was a significant difference between the two groups: "American adults who experience high levels of positive emotions, such as feeling 'cheerful' and 'extremely happy,' are more likely to have healthy blood-lipid profiles," explains lead study author Jiah Yoo, but the same was not true among Japanese adults.
The discrepancy, she adds, "suggests that health implications of positive emotions may not be completely driven by the inherent nature of positive emotions, but also shaped by American cultural context."
"In American cultures, experiencing positive emotions is seen as desirable and is even encouraged via socialization," Yoo explains.
"But in East Asian cultures, people commonly view positive emotions as having dark sides -- they are fleeting, may attract unnecessary attention from others, and can be a distraction from focusing on important tasks."
Past research has reached similar conclusions.
In a 2015 Stanford study of 690 Chinese and American participants, for example, the Americans generally sought to maximize positive feelings and minimize negative ones, while the Chinese subjects were more likely to report that they commonly felt mixed emotions.
The study authors argued that the results had to do with differing ideas about the importance of the individual: The individualistic American culture places more emphasis on people doing what's best for themselves, while more collectivist East Asian cultures prioritize doing what's best for the group.
Yoo believes the cultural influence on the positivity-health connection may be the result of culturally specific health behaviors.
"Frequent experience of positive affect in the Western context would be aligned with prescribed values and beliefs, and thus likely motivate engagement in and pursuit of healthy behaviors," she explains.
"In contrast, positive affect aligns less with norms and beliefs about positive affect in the East Asian context, and thus may not be associated with healthy behaviors."
In other words, it may be possible that positive thinking only improves our health because we're conditioned to believe that it's the optimal state -- that emotions and outlooks aren't actually as objectively good or bad as we've made them out to be.
After all, experiencing a full range of emotions is perfectly healthy, and a least one study has shown that there's a benefit to embracing your negative emotions .
Yoo says it's possible that Americans' mental and physical health could improve if we start viewing negativity as more acceptable.
But there are some caveats of the study.
One is that this study design can only show correlation, not causation.
Yoo says it also doesn't address the fact that "sometimes positive emotions may not be healthy, even in the U.S." Indeed, some research points to the damaging health effects of our relentless pursuit of positivity and happiness.
There's also the issue that what it means to be happy can vary by culture as well.
For example, "American conception of happiness emphasized on being upbeat, whereas the Chinese conception of happiness focused on being solemn and reserved.
This means that, in America, high-arousal positive emotional states are considered as happiness, a desirable state," psychotherapist Nangyeon Lim, a professor at South Korea's Kyungil University, explained in a 2016 article

"By contrast, low-arousal positive emotional states are considered as happiness in China."
High-arousal emotions are things like fear, anger, nervousness, irritation, astonishment, enthusiasm, delight, joy, or excitement; low-arousal emotions include feeling content, bored, relaxed, serene, sad, calm, sluggish, sleepy, satisfied, gloomy, pleased, or peaceful.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
It's not simply that Americans are more intent on seeking happiness, then -- there's also a high bar for how intense that happiness is supposed to feel.
"Westerners value high-arousal emotions more than Easterners, so they promote activities that elicit high-arousal emotions.," Lim noted.
"Even children of the West learn through storybooks that high-arousal emotions are ideal, and the opposite is true for children of the East."
It's comforting for me to hear that at least one culture may accept and embrace my gloominess -- that the disdain for people with my temperament isn't universal.
I may never be able to fully internalize the concept that it's okay to be sad, but I do know that I need to be gentler with myself, and to worry less when I don't meet my own, or society's, emotional expectations.
Maybe I don't need to shoot for delight.
Maybe contentment can feel just as good.
(CNN) Eman Abdul Atti, once believed to be the "world's heaviest woman," died on Monday due to complications from heart disease and kidney dysfunction, according to a statement from Burjeel Hospital in Abu Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates.
The 37-year old Egyptian woman weighed 1,102 pounds (500 kg), her family reported, prior to undergoing weight reduction surgery at Saifee Hospital in Mumbai in March.
All signs looked positive immediately following the surgery for Eman, who had lost more than 200 pounds prior to the operation.
"She is very happy, she started dancing in her bed," Dr. Muffazal Lakdawala, the surgeon who performed her laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy operation, told CNN in March.
"Her smile has come back."
The procedure involves removing part of the stomach so that only a "sleeve," roughly the size and shape of a banana, is left behind, along with the muscle that controls emptying food into the intestine.
On September 9, Eman celebrated her 37th birthday.
Early difficulties

Eman's family said Eman had weighed 11 pounds (5 kg) at birth and suffered from thyroid problems since she was a child.
The thyroid gland produces hormones that help regulate metabolism.
By fifth grade, she'd stopped going to school because she'd begun to have difficulties moving and walking.
For the past two decades, Eman has barely left her room, her family reported.
She suffered a stroke and, unable to move or communicate, her weight increased to more than 1,000 pounds.
Her health deteriorated rapidly.
Her sister created a social media campaign last year and Lakdawala responded by offering to help.
His proposed three-and-a-half year plan including two operations to help her reduce her weight to less than 220 pounds (100kg).
Eman overcame a number of hurdles to reach what her family had hoped to be a life-saving surgery in Mumbai, including an initial refusal to grant her a visa because of her inability to get to the embassy in person.
After surmounting that problem with the help of an Indian minister, she then faced the difficulty of boarding an airplane.
Egypt Air specially adapted a cargo plane to transport her to India.
Following the surgery, Lakdawala said her kidney function had improved.
"She has done well post-surgery," he told CNN in March.
At that time, he intended for her to lose another 155 to 175 pounds (70 to 80 kg) within the next couple of months.
The plan was to then send her home to Egypt and schedule a second surgery for next year.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Eman was later transferred to Burjeel Hospital in Abu Dhabi.
There, her condition was managed by a medical team of more than 20 doctors in different specialties.
However, her heart and kidneys could no longer function.
Her family expressed appreciation for the care provided by Burjeel Hospital and the support of the people of the UAE, according to the hospital statement.
"Our prayers and heartfelt condolences go out to her family," Burjeel Hospital staff said in the statement.
(CNN) A charming three-story home trimmed in white sits at the corner of 10th and Center streets on the Georgia Institute of Technology campus in Atlanta.
From the outside, the 5,000-square-foot abode appears just like any other home, but inside, Georgia Tech researchers are testing and developing cutting-edge devices to determine which can make the home safer -- and smarter -- for older adults.
The house is actually a living lab, called the Aware Home , and research conducted there has revealed some of the top home-related concerns among older adults, said Brian Jones, director of the Aware Home and a senior research scientist at Georgia Tech.
"Some of the concerns they had were around unattended cooking," he said, adding that the No.
1 cause of fires in older adults' homes is cooking equipment.
"If you forget that you have turned on the water to draw a bath or to wash the dishes, that can cause significant damage in the home," he said.
"TVs left on was another ... and then door locks."
Now, some in-home technologies are in development -- or on the market -- to address those concerns.
What the future holds for older adult care

stove at the Aware Home has been equipped with sensing and a large colored-light system that blinks to alert you when the oven has been left on unattended, which can be helpful if you are nearby.
If you are leaving the house, a photo frame placed by the front door blinks and plays sound to notify you that the stove is unattended and left on.
Devices of the future are expected to collect and use data to become much more personalized, said Elizabeth Mynatt, a professor and executive director of the Institute for People and Technology at Georgia Tech.
JUST WATCHED The art of aging Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The art of aging 08:04

"They will learn more about your habits, your likes, your dislikes, your routines, when you're most likely to forget to take your medication, what are the aspects of your health that need the most attention," she said.
"They will become as personalized to you that you just can't even imagine living without them."
For instance, a long hallway in the Aware Home is equipped with gait-sensing technology through which the walking patterns of someone strutting by are screened, collected and analyzed.
Those personalized data could be used to track that individual's health.
The data even could be programmed with an algorithm to alert a caregiver if any potentially harmful changes emerge in the gait pattern.
"To track how someone is doing ... is very important," Mynatt said.
"It's important for the daughter who wants to know that her mom is doing OK.
It's important for someone who might need to respond to a health emergency, and it is important for health professionals who might need to see those slight declines or trends over time," she said.
"Perhaps a person is less steady going up those steps than they were three months ago.
That would be an important indicator to maybe make some changes in the house before a fall or something else occurs."
Jones, director of the Aware Home, said that while such technologies can help monitor an older adult's health, he doesn't think they would entirely eliminate the need for care facilities.
Rather, "it might also help in informing a family when someone may need a caregiver," he said.
Mynatt agreed that at some point, the human body may need more constant care, and so there still may be a need for care facilities.
"What we will hopefully see is that older adults will live the majority of their lives in the setting of their choice," she said.
"Only in times of acute medical crisis or only at the very, very end of life would you have to move out of this setting."
For now, Mynatt and her colleagues are analyzing how such technologies may change the future.
However, you don't have to wait: Some technologies are assisting older adults today.
Smart home technologies on the market

Mynatt has connected her smartphone to her mother's Fitbit in order to keep track of her health and safety, despite living about a three-hour drive away, she said.
"If I'm wondering how she's doing, I can just check on her steps," Mynatt said.
"I know that on Friday, she volunteers in the hospital and there's going to be a lot of steps, and I know what Sunday's going to look like, and I know what her routine is.
So that little bit of information actually tells me quite a bit that she's doing alright."
As the 65-and-older population in the United States is projected to nearly double by the year 2050 -- reaching 83.7 million -- more and more smart technologies have appeared on the market for older adults.
One new device called Inirv React , currently in beta testing, connects your stove to a sensor in your home and a smartphone app.
The sensor will automatically turn the stove off if it no longer detects motion around the appliance after a long period of time.
You can also turn the stove off using your smartphone.
LifeAssist Technologies has developed the Reminder Rosie , a clock that allows you to record personalized messages and reminders that will be broadcast at scheduled times for whomever is in the home.
A reminder could be to take medication or that the grandchildren will be coming over for dinner.
Then there's MedMinder , a collection of automatic medication dispensers.
The dispensers first flash to remind users to take their medication.
They then beep if the medicine's still not taken.
Next, they call the user.
After a certain period of time, a caregiver or family member will be notified.
There are robots on the market for older adults, too.
The Paris-based company Bluefrog Robotics has developed Buddy, a companion robot that can act as a calendar reminder and alarm clock, and connect with home security systems.
With any technology, "most people ask that question, 'How invasive is it?'
But what we hear from older adults is that they value the security and the safety that the technology provides for them," Mynatt said.
"When we've talked to older adults about robots that could help them in the home, they'll tell us that they would rather have a robot than a human caregiver in some cases, because robots don't gossip," she said.
"They don't look through their things.
Robots don't judge.
So if a robot could help them day in and day out then, and a human could come in as needed, they would love that combination."
'Being independent is foremost in the mind'

While many older adults worry about losing their independence, 75-year-old Albert Bolet of Atlanta thinks most older adults are typically receptive to bringing technology into their homes.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"People have the misguided impression that seniors are adverse to technology.
I don't think that that is true at all," said Bolet, who has participated as a subject in research at Georgia Tech's Aware Home with his wife, Margarita.
"We do know what routers are, we do understand wireless technology, and we understand how these things will make things easier.
People will always tend to use things that are simple and will eliminate problems in their life," he said.
"Being independent is foremost in the mind of anybody that gets to be our age or older."
As technologies develop, researchers hope that they continue to improve independence and provide more options for older adults in the future.
Ian Kerner is a licensed psychotherapist, certified sexuality counselor and New York Times best-selling author.
Read more from him on his website, iankerner.com .
(CNN) From Anthony Weiner to Tiger Woods, there's no shortage of so-called sex addicts these days.
But is sex addiction a real condition?
Getting to the bottom of this question is the source of much controversy among therapists.
On one end of the spectrum are sex therapists (myself included), who tend to doubt that sex can be addictive and view the label as potentially shaming.
On the other end are sex addiction therapists who believe that for a small group of people, sex and the behaviors surrounding it can be as destructive and addictive as any drug.
The concept of sex addiction gained traction in the 1980s, when Patrick Carnes published "Out of the Shadows," one of the first books to identify compulsive sexual behavior, a problem he likened to an addiction.
Soon, treatment centers, 12-step programs and other resources grew around this new label, despite the fact that it has never been an accepted clinical diagnosis in the "Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders," which is widely viewed as the authoritative guide for psychiatric diagnosis and treatment.
"To me, 'sex addiction' is a cultural myth," said psychotherapist Joe Kort.
"Thirty years ago, we didn't have a better way to describe people who worried that their sexual behavior was out of control, so it made sense to call it addiction.
But it's not an actual diagnosis."
But should it be one?
I asked several of my colleagues on both sides of the debate to weigh in on claims and myths surrounding sex addiction.
Here's what they said.
Is sex addictive?
This is perhaps one of the greatest controversies about sex addiction.
Though some believe that sex can affect the brain in ways similar to drugs and alcohol -- habituation, withdrawal, escalating risk-taking behaviors, alteration of brain structures -- many proponents believe that sex addiction is more similar to a gambling addiction in that it involves a behavior, not a substance.
At present, gambling is the only addictive disorder in the American Psychiatric Association's fifth edition of the "Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM-5)" that would be considered a process or behavioral addiction.
And it may not even be the actual act of sex that's the issue.
"It's not about the kind of sex you have, who you have it with or even how often you have it," explained certified sex addiction therapist Robert Weiss.
"We don't base the definition of alcoholism on the type of alcohol someone drinks.
Like alcoholism, the sex addiction diagnosis is based on whether or not that individual's behavior repeatedly creates profound problems and crisis in their day-to-day life functioning."
Instead, Weiss sees sex addiction as a process addiction, in which the hunt for sex, whether that means searching for online porn or surfing for hookups on Tinder, creates in some people an anticipatory arousal that creates more of a rush than the act itself.
Yet some critics question whether there's a concern at all.
"Sex addiction has become the label du jour to explain why people without an understanding of their own desires now struggle and feel out of control in a world that's increasingly sexually permissive," said David Ley, a psychologist.
"They tend to be people who grew up in religious households who have been taught that sex should make them feel guilty and ashamed."
Indeed, for some, the label of sex addiction may simply be a response to that shame, said Michael Aaron, a sex therapist.
"Many of the 'sex addict' clients I see aren't addicts at all.
They've been told by a partner or someone else that their behavior, like watching porn or having a high libido, is a problem."
Other therapists fall somewhere in the middle.
"I do believe that a subset of people struggle with out-of-control sexual behavior," said sex therapist Douglas Braun-Harvey.
"They may have sexual urges, thoughts and behaviors that are consensual but that they feel they can't control.
I view this a sexual health problem, though, not an addictive disorder."
What does the research say?
It's tempting to look to science to settle this debate, but research only seems to feed the both sides of the debate.
In a well-publicized 2015 study , a researcher at the University of California, Los Angeles, Nicole Prause, used EEG to measure brain activity in 122 men and women, some of whom reported having problems controlling their viewing of online pornography.
After showing the volunteers a set of photographs, some of which were sexual in nature, she found that the pattern of brain responses in subjects with porn viewing problems was the opposite of that seen in all other proposed addictions, including cocaine, tobacco and gambling.
This suggests that self-reported sex addicts don't exhibit any different brain activity than people who just have high libidos.
But other studies have found some differences.
In a 2014 study , a University of Cambridge researcher, Valerie Voon, used functional magnetic resonance imaging to scan the brains of 38 men, half of whom struggled with compulsive sexual behavior, while they viewed either porn videos or sports footage.
She found that three regions of the brain were more active in people with compulsive sexual behavior compared with the other volunteers.
These were the same regions that are activated in drug addicts when shown images of drugs.
These people also exhibited higher levels of desire toward the porn even though they didn't say they enjoyed the videos, a phenomenon also found in people with other types of addiction.
Yet Voon and her colleagues concluded that their findings aren't proof that porn addiction exists.
How should we treat it?
Whether or not we call it sex addiction, it's clear that some people are struggling, whether they feel like they can't stop viewing porn, they're cheating on their partner or they're allowing sexual behavior to disrupt their work and relationships.
How that's treated, however, depends on whom you see.
Although some people who identify as sex addicts may find support in 12-step programs similar to those used for drug and alcohol addiction, others seek counseling from certified sex addiction therapists.
In any given week, there are well over 1,000 Sex Addicts Anonymous meetings across the United States .
And according to the National Institute on Drug Abuse, there are now over 14,500 treatment centers in the US, with revenues of $35 billion in 2014.
While the majority of these rehab centers primarily treat drug and alcohol abuse, sex addiction treatment is increasingly prominent.
And in the spirit of "once an addict, always an addict," many of these centers deploy a clinical approach based on 12-steps programs.
"I think people underestimate how deeply sex addiction therapists are looking at roots of the problem," said certified sex and sex addiction therapist Alexandra Katehakis, who believes many cases of sex addiction stem from a traumatic childhood.
"There's not a moral or shaming component; we're trying to help them integrate sex into their lives in a healthier way and help them feel whole."
A common criticism of sex addiction therapy is that it is akin to reparative or conversion therapy used by religious groups to tamp down a client's homosexual urges or other sources of judgment and shame.
Though the potential for misuse exists, the industry has taken steps to help prevent it.
"Any solid training program has ethical guidelines against reparative therapy," explained Stefanie Carnes, a certified sex addiction therapist and president of the International Institute for Trauma and Addiction Professionals.
"We ask our professionals to sign an ethics contract attesting that they won't misuse their training in this way."
But how do sex therapists -- who, in large part, overwhelmingly question the legitimacy of sex addiction as a diagnosis -- treat clients with out-of-control sexual behavior?
"Regardless of what we label it, therapists have been helping clients with these problems for years," said psychotherapist Michael Crocker.
"There are many valid models of working with out-of-control sexual behaviors.
I personally believe there are underlying issues related to why individuals struggle with (this) behavior,and approach treatment this way."
In my professional experience, some people who are worried they are sex addicts may be grappling with other treatable issues, such as:

Mental health concerns such as depression.
In my experience, when people are depressed and isolated, they tend to masturbate more and kill time watching porn, which contributes to their low mood.
But the main issue that needs to be treated is the depression and not its symptom.
On the other extreme, a person with bipolar disorder might experience bouts of mania that lead to hypersexuality, but again, this is not an addiction issue.
Sexual gratification as a primary coping mechanism.
In theory, there's nothing wrong with having an orgasm as a way of distracting oneself.
But sex shouldn't be the only way we manage anxiety and difficult emotions.
A libido discrepancy.
When one partner in a couple has a higher libido than the other, they may worry that they are an addict rather than just different.
An erotic conflict.
Someone who doesn't want to admit that he's gay, for example, may self-label himself as an addict when having sex with men or watching gay porn.
In short, he's trying to disavow a part of his identity that he's uncomfortable with.
Avoiding responsibility for one's actions.
For example, a serial cheater may feel more comfortable self-labeling as a sex addict than meaningfully exploring why he's unable to stay monogamous.
I personally know many good therapists who subscribe to the sex addiction model and are doing very thoughtful work with their patients.
Many of them even identify as recovering sex addicts themselves, giving them an extra stake in the passion of their convictions.
One of the issues, though, is that their good work stands atop a long history of shaming and pathologizing that goes back to the Victorian era of vilifying masturbation as form of sex addiction.
Today, popular culture has embraced the sex addiction label ahead of evidence-based research, making it difficult to separate fact from fiction.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
In my own practice, many people come to me labeling themselves or their partners as sex addicts.
Although I don't believe that sex is addictive, I respect that this is how my patients are experiencing their relationship with sex: as something that feels out of control.
This may be what gets clients talking, but that conversation shifts to a deeper understanding of underlying causes and how to address them.
I don't try to change their language, but most of my patients end up expanding their formulation of their problem beyond the addiction lens.
Sex addiction is often the beginning of the conversation, not the end.
(CNN) The drama was palpable.
Somewhere, under a collapsed school building in Mexico City, a little girl named Frida Sofia was trapped.
Rescuers scraped through the rubble, racing to set her free.
We were riveted.
After a horrific 7.1 magnitude earthquake devastated the capital city, we were all pulling for an uplifting rescue.
The problem was, Frida Sofia didn't exist.
That came out two days later, when the Mexican navy said it was sorry for the erroneous information.
It happened during the 1985 Mexico quake as well.
Then, as now, a little child trapped in debris gripped the imagination of the nation.
He, too, wasn't real.
In both revelations, there was an odd disappointment.
The emotional connection with these children had been so strong, the obsession with their plight palpable.
But why?
Sociologists call it the "identifiable victim effect."
When we're confronted with a tragedy with hundreds or thousands of victims, we often zero in on the plight of one person.
It's especially true when that person's a child -- real, or imagined.
JUST WATCHED Frenzy as people are heard trapped under rubble Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Frenzy as people are heard trapped under rubble 02:10

The difference between a victim and a statistic

In 1968, economist Thomas Schelling wrote that the death of an individual, as opposed to a group, invokes "anxiety and sentiment, guilt and awe, responsibility and religion."
Yet, he continued, "most of this awesomeness disappears when we deal with statistical death."
These words became the cornerstone of the "identifiable victim effect" theory.
It's based on a psychological process people employ when the suffering of many, or suffering in the abstract, becomes too hard to understand.
5-year-old wounded Syrian kid Omran Daqneesh sits alone in the back of the ambulance in Aleppo.
It's also a psychological process that activates our most basic human motivator: Emotion.
"Emotions are mechanisms that compel us to act," says Dan Ariely, an author and behavior economics expert who holds a Ph.D. in cognitive psychology.
"Think of it as nature's way to get us to do something."
"And what created emotion is not statistical information about lots of people," he says.
"It's the individual and the empathy we feel for them"

Children in particular are a main focus of this biological switch, because we see them as innocent.
"We can't attribute any blame to them," Ariely says.
"It is a question of agency.
When we have people that we think don't have agency, then we feel much worse for them and we are much more willing to do things for them."
There's a positive side to this

That's not always a bad thing.
Take Omran Daqneesh , the Syrian boy made famous in 2016 by viral footage from war-torn Aleppo.
Hundreds of thousands of Syrians have died since the Syrian civil war began in 2011.
Yet, the image of Omran, bloodied and dazed in the back of an ambulance, galvanized the public's interest more than any six-figure statistic could.
Often, these iconic children serve as symbols of a larger struggle -- war, immigration, natural disaster, or in the case of Ryan White, illness.
Ryan was diagnosed with AIDS when he was only 13.
The year was 1984, a time when HIV/AIDS was widely misunderstood and heavily stigmatized.
His journey affected the public so acutely that it inspired legislation around the disease -- a moment of real social progress.
American AIDS activist Ryan White.
Born with haemophilia, he accidentally contracted the AIDS virus during medical treatment.
His legal struggle to continue studying at public school made national headlines.
But there's a negative consequence too

But the intense fascination the public forms around an individual can sometimes invite a similarly disproportional response.
In 1987, "Baby Jessica" fell down a well and instantly became an American legend.
Her 58-hour rescue was must-watch TV drama for millions.
A rescue worker carries18-month-old Jessica McClure to safety in Midland, Texas after she was trapped for 58 hours after she plunged 22 feet into an abandoned water well.
There can often be an uncomfortable, reality-TV feel to these kinds of obsessions.
Each time a child makes the news for an abduction or a fall down a well, the public's intense interest becomes both a byproduct of the story and a part of the story.
With Baby Jessica's rescue, the modern obsession with endangered children was born.
There have been innumerable instances since then.
There's Madeline McCann, a British girl who went missing in 2007.
About 800,000 kids go missing each year, according to one often-quoted stat .
There's not enough emotional energy in the world to worry about each one equally.
So we focus on the ones who're most readily before us.
JUST WATCHED Missing minorities get less media coverage than white children and adults.
Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Missing minorities get less media coverage than white children and adults.
03:50

This can lead to a disproportionate level of attention and aid.
"The kind of things that compel us to act are not necessarily the important things," Ariely says.
"In cases where we ask the question of where to give money, the thing that is emotionally compelling, that will be where our focus is."
... and it explains Frida's story

It was the drama of a specific storyline that pulled people toward -- and made others skeptical of -- the story of Frida Sofia.
It's no surprise the narrative was fascinating.
Who wouldn't root for, pray for, hope for, a child's survival?
But as the hours wore on, the truth emerged.
The Mexican navy said it had based its information on "technical reports" and on the accounts of civilians and rescuers.
"I offer the Mexican public an apology for the information disseminated this afternoon where I affirmed that I did not have details about a supposed child survivor in this tragedy," Angel Enrique Sarmiento, deputy secretary of the Mexican navy, said.
JUST WATCHED Silence falls as crowds listen for signs of life after the Mexico earthquake Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Silence falls as crowds listen for signs of life after the Mexico earthquake 01:13

Immediately, the conversation turned to the story of Monchito, the "ghost boy."
During the Mexico quake of 1985, Monchito's story followed a similar narrative to Frida's.
He was believed to be a 9-year-old boy trapped in the debris of a house.
Civilians and rescuers fretted over his rescue, convinced by family accounts and their own senses the boy was just beyond their reach.
He was never found.
Crisis and chaos can often scatter reason and push us back to our more basic functions.
And emotion, it seems, is the ultimate override.
(CNN) In a new effort to tackle the deadly opioid addiction crisis in the United States, pharmacy giant CVS announced Friday that it will limit opioid prescriptions to seven days for certain conditions.
This restriction will apply to patients who are new to pain therapy.
The new pharmacy program will also limit the daily dosage of pain pills based on their strength and will require use of immediate-release formulations before extended-release opioids -- intended for severe, long-term pain treatment -- are dispensed.
The changes will roll out February 1 and cover all commercial, health plan, employer and Medicaid clients.
CVS, which manages medications for nearly 90 million plan members, is one of the largest pharmaceutical chains in the US, with approximately 9,600 CVS Pharmacy stores and more than 1,100 walk-in medical clinics.
"With a presence in nearly 10,000 communities across the country, we see firsthand the impact of the alarming and rapidly growing epidemic of opioid addiction and misuse," said Larry J. Merlo, president and CEO of CVS Health

Sales of prescription opioids quadruple from 1999 to 2014

From 1999 to 2014, sales of prescription opioids in the US almost quadrupled , according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, yet there has been no change in pain reported by Americans.
CVS said its pharmacists will counsel patients with opioid prescriptions about the risk of dependence and addiction based on CDC guidelines .
These educational sessions will also emphasize the importance of keeping medications secure in the home and proper disposal of unused medications.
To help patients wanting to follow these guidelines, the company will almost double the number of drug disposal units in its Medication Disposal for Safer Communities Program from 800 to 1,550 kiosks.
This expansion will begin this fall with locations in Florida, Massachusetts, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Carolina and the District of Columbia.
These moves put CVS's pharmacy program more in line with the CDC's opioid prescribing guidelines.
Express Scripts, the country's largest pharmacy benefits manager, has similar limits in place.
An 'impactful' move?
"I think it's going to be helpful.
I think it's going to be impactful," said Dr. Andrew Kolodny, director of Physicians for Responsible Opioid Prescribing, who saw the announcement as more than a public relations move.
"It will be expensive.
This will be a real administrative burden" for CVS, he said.
Studies have found that longer prescription durations, as well as higher dosages, increase the likelihood of chronic use.
CVS's steps are meant to curb not just potential long-term opioid use but also potential opioid misuse.
"There are millions of prescription bottles sitting in our bathroom cabinets and on our bedroom nightstands right now, including far too many prescription opioids that ultimately are used non-medically," said Dr. Caleb Alexander, co-director of the Johns Hopkins Center for Drug Safety and Effectiveness.
"We've been watching the epidemic get worse, hidden in plain sight, for far too long, and these types of policies are necessary to reduce the incredible oversupply of prescription opioids," Alexander said.
Balancing patients' needs

The American Academy of Pain Medicine "supports any initiative that would help limit the effects of over prescribing medications or leading to excessive unused medicines that could lead to harm to a patient or family members or their community," said Dr. Steven Stanos , president of the academy.
Stanos worries that CVS's recommendations could be interpreted too rigidly and affect patients.
"We would want it to balance the needs of the patient and doesn't intrude on the relationship between the patient and the physician and how they made that decision," Stanos said.
It's a sentiment echoed by Dr. Patrice Harris, chairwoman of the American Medical Association's opioids task force.
"When patients seek physician help for an opioid use disorder -- or need comprehensive care for chronic pain -- one-size-fits-all limits, such as blanket prior authorization protocols, may cause delays in care that could severely harm patients," she said.
CVS said its guidelines are flexible and recognize that there maybe situations that require more than a seven-day prescription or a higher-dose opioid.
For times like those, physicians will be able to seek exceptions.
CVS is also committing $2 million to federally qualified community health centers that provide medication-assisted treatment and other addiction recovery services.
The President's opioid commission says that about 142 Americans die every day from a drug overdose, equal to the death toll from the September 11 attacks every three weeks.
Most of those overdoses are from opioids.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Though there were over 30,000 fatal overdoses from opioid drugs in 2015, public health experts believe that for every fatal overdose, there are 30 non-fatal overdoses.
That would mean over 900,000 overdoses in 2015 alone.
According to the CDC, drug overdoses are the leading cause of unintentional death in the US.
Story highlights An attorney cited Aaron Hernandez's test results from the Boston University CTE Center

Hernandez played for the New England Patriots from 2010 to 2012

(CNN) Aaron Hernandez, the former NFL star who took his life while serving a murder sentence in prison, had chronic traumatic encephalopathy -- commonly known as CTE -- attorney Jose Baez said Thursday.
Baez cited study results compiled by the Boston University CTE Center, which examined Hernandez's brain for the neurodegenerative brain disease.
Hernandez played for the New England Patriots from 2010 to 2012 after a standout collegiate career at the University of Florida.
According to a statement from BU, Hernandez's brain was examined by Dr. Ann McKee, director of the CTE Center.
The neurodegenerative brain disease has Alzheimer's-like symptoms, including memory loss, confusion, aggression, rage and, at times, suicidal behavior.
It is believed to result from repeated trauma to the head, which results in a buildup of the abnormal protein tau that clumps in the brain.
The disease is categorized in four degrees, with Stage 4 being the most severe.
According to McKee's analysis, Hernandez was found to have Stage 3 CTE, which is commonly associated with cognitive and memory loss, as well as behavioral changes and impaired judgment.
Hernandez was found to have early degeneration of brain cells and large tears in the septum pellucidum, a central membrane of the brain.
Read More
(CNN) Andrew Montgomery was a budding performer when he first saw the show "Le Rve-The Dream" nine years ago in Las Vegas.
"I saw it, and I was like, 'I have to be a part of this show,' " he said.
Physically demanding for performers, the show is artful and acrobatic and plays out in a pool of water with lifts instead of a stage.
In 2015, Montgomery got his chance.
He saw a flyer for an audition in Los Angeles, where he was living, and seized the opportunity.
"We had auditioned close to 500 people when we saw him.
And he was a jack of all trades," said Louanne Madorma, "Le Rve" casting director.
"He had something really special from the beginning, and everybody knew that he was the guy I wanted."
But four days after the audition, Montgomery's life took a tragic turn.
"I was struck by a car on my motorcycle while riding home from work," the 30-year-old recalled.
"My foot actually got smashed between the car bumper and my motorcycle."
He spent the next 2 weeks in the hospital and had three surgeries to try to save his foot.
"My doctor has basically told me that amputation seems to be the best option," Montgomery said in a video shot from his hospital bed.
"I'm not ready to let go," he added, holding back tears.
But eventually, his left leg was amputated below the knee.
"When you have any type of life-changing event like that, you're left to evaluate where your life sits," he said.
"I thought, 'There's no way I could be in the show.'
"

After going home from the hospital, Montgomery gave himself a week to grieve.
"And then, from there on, I said, 'there's no looking back.'
And that's when I started fighting."
The day he got his first prosthesis, Montgomery was walking on his own.
Three weeks later, he was walking up and down stairs, running and even dancing.
"I immediately hit the gym as soon as I could.
I was constantly focusing on balance and just building all of that strength," he said.
Madorma reached out to Montgomery after hearing about his accident.
When he stopped by the show to see a friend, the casting director told him, "As soon as you're ready, if you can do what you did in the audition, you have a job."
Montgomery started sending her videos.
"He ran and did a round-off back handspring," she said.
"He progressed very quickly."
It was eight months from the day he started walking again to the day he walked back into the audition room.
And then one day, he got the call to join the cast.
"Everything that I had worked for up to this point and everything that I had done to get my life back on track was within that phone call," he said.
"I was completely beside myself.
I was running around my apartment.
I was freaking out."
Montgomery moved to Las Vegas, and he's living his dream doing two shows a night, five days a week.
"It's very physically demanding.
We have people flying in and out.
We're hanging from the ceiling at 90 feet.
We've got people swimming in and out of the water."
He has four waterproof prosthetic legs designed by the Hanger Clinic that he uses in the show: one that fits inside shoes and boots, one for aerial work, one for acrobatics and a backup in case one breaks.
"Despite what you see on stage, there are a numerous set of challenges that I have to overcome.
I like to say that inside every prosthesis is a person who is making it look easy."
Montgomery works as a male generalist, performing in multiple acts that involve dancing, swimming, aerial work and acrobatics.
His goal is to blend in with the cast.
"If you walked away from this show and you had no idea that there was an amputee in the show, I have done my job.
I don't think I can take for granted every second that I get to spend out on that stage, because there was a time when it never could have happened."
Story highlights Low desire in one partner is one main reason couples seek out sex therapy

Sexual desire changes across long-term relationships

Ian Kerner is a licensed psychotherapist, certified sexuality counselor and New York Times best-selling author.
Read more from him on his website, iankerner.com.
(CNN) About 15% of men and 34% of women say they're not really interested in sex, according to a new study, statistics that few experts find surprising.
In fact, low desire in one partner is probably the top reason couples seek out sex therapy.
When one of you has more interest in sex than the other, it's easy for the person with the higher sex drive to feel rejected, bruised and undesirable and for the partner who avoids sex to feel pressure, anxious and guilty.
Any number of factors can affect sexual desire, and most of them have little to do with your partner's attractiveness.
In the study I mentioned, researchers found that for both men and women, physical and mental health had an impact on libido.
But they may have different motivations for avoiding sex.
"For men, it's often the appearance of disinterest rather than actual loss of interest," sex therapist Deborah Fox said.
"Men avoid sex frequently due to prior performance issues, such as erectile issues or rapid ejaculation.
They may avoid it to escape the anxiety of these issues reoccurring."
In women, hormonal factors and fatigue can contribute to low libido.
And sometimes, life just gets in the way.
"In my practice, I see a lot of desire diminish due to interest in porn, boredom of the same sexual routine, the comfort of monogamy and relationship security, and the loss of couple time due to a focus on parenting time," sex therapist Amanda Pasciucco said.
Read More
And as I found in a newly released analysis of seven large surveys , teens are also now less likely to drive, date or go out without their parents than their counterparts 10 or 20 years ago.
Some have tried to explain certain aspects of these trends.
Today's teens are more virtuous and responsible, sociologist David Finkelhor has argued .
No, says journalist Jess Williams , they're just more boring.
Others have suggested that teens aren't working because they are simply lazy.
However, none of these researchers and writers has been able to tie everything together.
Not drinking or having sex might be considered "virtuous," but not driving or working is unrelated to virtue -- and might actually be seen as less responsible.
A lower teen pregnancy rate isn't "boring" or "lazy"; it's fantastic.
These trends continued even as the economy improved after 2011, suggesting the Great Recession isn't the primary cause.
Nor is more schoolwork: The average teen today spends less time on homework than his counterparts did in the 1990s, with time spent on extracurricular activities staying about the same.
To figure out what's really going on, it's worth taking a broader look at today's teens -- a generation of kids I call " iGen " -- and the environment they're living in.
A different culture, a slower path

Working, driving, drinking alcohol, having sex and dating have one thing in common: They are all activities adults do.
This generation of teens, then, is delaying the responsibilities and pleasures of adulthood.
Adolescence -- once the beginning of adulthood -- now seems to be an extension of childhood.
It's not that teens are more virtuous or lazier.
They could simply be taking longer to grow up.
Looking at these trends through the lens of " life history theory " might be useful.
According to this model, whether development is "slow" (with teens taking longer to get to adulthood) or "fast" (getting to adulthood sooner) depends on cultural context.
A "slow life strategy" is more common in times and places where families have fewer children and spend more time cultivating each child's growth and development.
This is a good description of our current culture in the U.S., when the average family has two children , kids can start playing organized sports as preschoolers and preparing for college can begin as early as elementary school.
This isn't a class phenomenon; I found in my analysis that the trend of growing up more slowly doesn't discriminate between teens from less advantaged backgrounds and those from wealthier families.
A "fast-life strategy," on the other hand, was the more common parenting approach in the mid-20th century, when fewer labor-saving devices were available and the average woman had four children.
As a result, kids needed to fend for themselves sooner.
When my uncle told me he went skinny-dipping with his friends when he was eight, I wondered why his parents gave him permission.
Then I remembered: His parents had six other children (with one more to come), ran a farm and it was 1947.
The parents needed to focus on day-to-day survival, not making sure their kids had violin lessons by age five.
Is growing up slowly good or bad?
Life history theory explicitly notes that slow and fast life strategies are adaptations to a particular environment, so each isn't inherently "good" or "bad."
Likewise, viewing the trends in teen behavior as "good" or "bad" (or as teens being more "mature" or "immature," or more "responsible" or "lazy") misses the big picture: slower development toward adulthood.
And it's not just teens -- children are less likely to walk to and from school and are more closely supervised, while young adults are taking longer to settle into careers, marry and have children.
Adulting " -- which refers to young adults performing adult responsibilities as if this were remarkable -- has now entered the lexicon.
The entire developmental path from infancy to full adulthood has slowed.
But like any adaptation, the slow life strategy has trade-offs.
It's definitely a good thing that fewer teens are having sex and drinking alcohol.
But what about when they go to college and suddenly enter an environment where sex and alcohol are rampant?
For example, although fewer 18-year-olds now binge-drink, 21- to 22-year-olds still binge-drink at roughly the same rate as they have since the 1980s.
One study found that teens who rapidly increased their binge-drinking were more at risk of alcohol dependence and adjustment issues than those who learned to drink over a longer period of time.
Delaying exposure to alcohol, then, could make young adults less prepared to deal with drinking in college.
The same might be true of teens who don't work, drive or go out much in high school.
Yes, they're probably less likely to get into an accident, but they may also arrive at college or the workplace less prepared to make decisions on their own.
Although I found in my analyses that iGen evinces a stronger work ethic than millennials, they'll probably also require more guidance as they transition into adulthood.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Even with the downsides in mind, it's likely beneficial that teens are spending more time developing socially and emotionally before they date, have sex, drink alcohol and work for pay.
The key is to make sure that teens eventually get the opportunity to develop the skills they will need as adults: independence, along with social and decision-making skills.
For parents, this might mean making a concerted effort to push your teenagers out of the house more.
Otherwise, they might just want to live with you forever.
(CNN) Most sex education classes begin in high school.
But a new study suggests that, no matter where children live, real talk about relationships, identity and sexuality should start even earlier to minimize the negative impacts of gender roles.
You've probably heard it before : More than biology, family, friends and society influence impressions of what it means to be a boy or a girl, placing rigid gender expectations on children from a young age.
In recent years, a growing body of research has focused on health inequities that result from enforced gender norms in children.
The study, published Wednesday in the Journal of Adolescent Health, contributes a global perspective to this issue.
The key finding: Whether a child is in Baltimore, Beijing or New Delhi, the onset of adolescence triggers a common set of rigidly enforced gender expectations associated with increased lifelong risks of mental and physical health problems.
Researchers with the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health and the World Health Organization collaborated on the Global Early Adolescent Study to identify universal themes in gender identity development across countries and income levels.
"Adolescent health risks are shaped by behaviors rooted in gender roles that can be well-established in kids by the time they are 10 or 11 years old," said Kristin Mmari, associate professor at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health and lead researcher for qualitative research on the Global Early Adolescent Study.
"Yet we see billions of dollars around the world invested in adolescent health programs that don't kick in until they are 15, and by then, it's probably too late to make a big difference."
For girls, those risks can include child marriage, pregnancy, leaving school early, sexually transmitted infections and exposure to violence.
Boys suffer, too, from increased risk of substance abuse, suicide and shorter life expectancy than women -- especially if they try to challenge masculine norms.
The findings appear in the journal as a series of articles based on interviews in 15 countries with 450 early adolescents and their parents or guardians, totaling nearly 900 people.
The experiences described were different, but themes emerged across continents.
Girls are vulnerable, and boys are strong

The study calls it the hegemonic myth: the perception that men are the dominant sex, strong and independent, while women need to be protected.
This idea starts in early childhood, reinforced by schools, parents and media.
Interviews with children and their guardians revealed that the onset of puberty triggers increased reinforcement of pressure to conform to hegemonic sex-typed identities and roles.
While boys, men described having the freedom to come and go as they pleased to pursue education and other opportunities, girls found their mobility and access to education restricted, the study notes.
As they enter adolescence, silence and modesty are instilled as desirable values, as girls are pressed to behave in a "modest fashion."
This phenomenon leads to numerous cascading cultural perceptions.
Once puberty hits, it's all about (preventing) sex

Puberty deepens the divide, especially when it comes to sexuality, turning boys into predators and girls into potential targets, the study found.
Messages such as "don't sit like that," "don't wear that" and "boys will ruin your future" reinforce the gender division of power and promote sex segregation with the aim of preserving a girl's sexuality, the study says.
"In some places, girls come to internalize these norms to even a greater extent than boys."
In Delhi, once a girl reaches puberty, "her family is concerned with protecting her chastity, preventing elopement and fears stigma from losing family honor," the researchers said.
Girls there are not supposed to look at or talk to boys, "as this might raise suspicion that they were initiating romantic relationships."
The researchers also found that, despite efforts to normalize menstruation and breast development, negative societal attitudes further contribute to girls' sense of self-objectification, body shame and lack of agency in sexual decision-making.
"The onset of menstruation appeared to constitute a major concern for parents as they linked puberty with the potential for early romantic and sexual engagements and subsequent risk of adolescent pregnancy," the study said.
'Cover up, and don't go out'

As a consequence of adult perceptions of girls' sexual vulnerability, respondents in nearly every location reported that girls' mobility is far more restricted than it is for boys.
In Ghent, Belgium, respondents spoke of how girls had to take care in selecting their clothing or risk being seen as "too easy" or "prostitutes," making them potential victims of violence.
An 11-year-old in Delhi expressed a similar sentiment: "Parents also tell (girls) not to go out alone.
She will not be allowed to do a job.
I really don't understand why girls are not allowed to go out of the house."
A young girl in Nairobi, Kenya, described not being able to go out at night because she had grown breasts.
Parental fear for girls' safety and family status is a common rationale for restricting girls' movements, especially in the Middle East and among some immigrant groups in Western Europe.
But such concerns seem minor compared with the potential consequences.
"This constricted spatial mobility of girls is linked to restricted knowledge and power and can have profound health implications for girls in the form of more susceptibility to sexual violence and poor access to reproductive health services, in addition to loss of prestige especially among poor families," the study said.
Boys are trouble

Despite the freedom and benefits conferred upon them, boys are still perceived as a danger to girls because of their vulnerability -- a bias with negative impacts for both genders, researchers said.
In Delhi and Shanghai, girls said they were discouraged from interacting with boys, becoming friends them or forming romantic relationships.
"I don't make friends with boys, as my parents asked me not to," a 12-year-old in Delhi said.
"Maybe I befriend a girl and someone would see me and would go tell her dad, and problems happen," a boy in Assiut, Egypt, said.
Gender-nonconforming has consequences

A recurring theme in conversations with adolescents and adults was those who defied gender expectations, resulting in "significant sanctions and pressures to conform," the study said.
The study focuses on three common manifestations of defiance: boys wearing nail polish, girls playing football or soccer, and gender-"inappropriate" clothing.
For young children, it may start as acceptable to cross gender boundaries.
But once it becomes clear that a behavior is socially defined as typical for the other sex, "it is shunned out of fear of being ostracized," the study said.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Though boys too resist typical masculine norms, researchers discovered a greater willingness among girls to challenge gender stereotypes, Moreover, "tomboy" behavior in girls enjoyed more peer and parental acceptance than their male "sissy" counterparts, who faced significantly more stigma and rejection, the study said.
"A potential explanation for this may be that girls who 'act like boys' display masculine characteristics associated with power and dominance," researchers surmised.
Conversely, "boys who 'act like girls' are generally not granted the same social acceptance because of the lower power or prestige associated with femininity traits and behaviors."
(CNN) The DNA of human embryos has been altered and studied for the first time in the UK, offering new insight into the early stages of human development.
Scientists at the Francis Crick Institute, a medical research center, have identified the role of a key gene that controls how embryos form during the first few days of development.
Understanding the biology behind these early stages could help in the discovery of ways to improve the success of in-vitro fertilization, offer some explanation into why some women experience miscarriage and offer general knowledge on how humans develop.
Studies in the United States have manipulated the genomes of embryos to help understand -- and fix -- gene mutations that lead to inherited diseases, such as heart conditions.
But this is the first research to target human growth and development.
'Switching off' a crucial stage

Stopping a gene from working and exploring what happens when it's gone is a good way to find out the gene's purpose.
The team used a gene-editing technique known as CRISPR-Cas9 to switch off a particular gene involved in embryo development, known as OCT4.
Blocking the functioning of this gene means the resulting protein, also called OCT4, cannot be produced, eventually halting an embryo's development.
"Embryo microinjection" shows an embryo being injected with the CRISPR-Cas9 components.
When a human egg is fertilized, it forms an embryo, which then divides and grows from one cell into a ball of more than 200 cells, called a blastocyst.
At this point, the cells begin to separate and specialize, with some set to form the placenta and others destined to form a baby.
The researchers found that without OCT4, this blastocyst couldn't form.
"We were surprised to see just how crucial this gene is for human embryo development, but we need to continue our work to confirm its role," said Norah Fogarty of the Francis Crick Institute, first author of the study, which was published Wednesday in the journal Nature .
"Other research methods, including studies in mice, suggested a later and more focused role for OCT4, so our results highlight the need for human embryo research," she said in a statement.
The new research investigated the role of this gene in mice and humans and found that OCT4 plays a different role in human embryos than in mice, highlighting the need for human research in this area.
"In humans, (OCT4) not only maintains the embryo, but other tissues are affected, and the blastocyst does not form," said Ludovic Vallier, a stem cell biologist at the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute who co-authored the research.
"In mice, (the gene) just maintains the integrity of the embryo."
The embryo on the fifth day of development, right, and an edited embryo without the OCT4 gene on the fifth day of development.
Vallier believes this further highlights that human development is very specific and different from that of other species, meaning techniques based on animal models will have limitations.
"We never know what to expect when we model from a mouse system," he said.
For the new study, the Crick Institute team blocked the OCT4 gene in 41 embryos donated by couples who had undergone IVF.
Opening the door for further research

After showing that gene-editing techniques can highlight the functionality of certain genes in this way, the team hopes other scientists will use these methods to discover the role of other genes and ultimately help improve IVF and avoid miscarriage.
Among women who know they are pregnant, it's estimated that one on six will have a miscarriage, according to the UK's National Health Service

"If we knew the key genes that embryos need to develop successfully, we could improve IVF treatments and understand some causes of pregnancy failure," Kathy Niakan of the Francis Crick Institute, who led the research, said in a statement.
This study opens the door for further investigations.
"It may take many years to achieve such an understanding.
Our study is just the first step."
"This proof-of-principle paper uses CRISPR genome editing to show that although genetic expression in the early mouse embryo may be similar to a human embryo.
There are critical differences in the levels and resulting developmental capacity of these embryos when essential genes are mutated," said Helen Claire O'Neill, programme director of reproductive science and women's health at University College London, who was not involved in the study.
"This paper therefore elegantly highlights the need for further research using human embryos."
"One in every four couples has been affected by infertility, and to address the issue, we have to understand the biology of the earliest stages of human development," commented Dr. Dusko Ilic, reader in stem cell science at King's College London, who also was not part of the research.
"The study is another proof that the findings from experimental animal models cannot be always extrapolated to humans."
Ethical questions

This form of research, however, does not come without controversy, as it involved manipulating the genes of human embryos and the potential to alter the germline: how DNA is passed on though generations.
In the UK, strict ethical guidelines are in place for the use of eggs, sperm and embryos in research, regulated by the Human Fertilization and Embryo Authority.
Researchers must apply for a license to conduct research, and embryos used for research cannot develop for longer than 14 days after fertilization and cannot be implanted into a woman's womb.
The new study explored blastocyst formation in embryos, which occurs within seven days of fertilization.
The controversy surrounding gene editing in human embryos partly stems from concern that the changes CRISPR makes in DNA can be passed down to the offspring of those embryos, from generation to generation.
Down the line, that could affect the genetic makeup of humans in erratic ways.
Some CRISPR critics also have argued that gene editing may give way to eugenics and to allowing embryos to be edited with certain features in order to develop so-called designer babies.
But the researchers believe this does not apply to the current study, which focused on basic science and understanding rather than future editing in humans.
"We are focusing on developing the technology," Vallier said.
"These proof-of-concept studies are needed to know the risks, to be sure there are no side effects and that the technique is not damaging other regions of the genome."
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Many experts believe this form of research is pivotal to gaining a better understanding of how humans develop.
"There are many more questions posed by this first demonstration that genome editing can be added to the toolbox of methods that can be used to understand the biology of the early human embryo," said Robin Lovell-Badge, a geneticist at the Francis Crick Institute who was not involved in the study.
"More understanding of the embryo itself will also lead to better ways to derive and use stem cells corresponding the various cell types that are present in the embryo shortly before implantation.
Knowing which genes and the pathways they control will be key to all of this."
(CNN) The Gatorade Company will no longer be able to make disparaging comments about water, according to a settlement announced Thursday by California Attorney General Xavier Becerra .
The settlement stems from the company's free and award-winning mobile game "Bolt!"
which came out in 2012 but is no longer listed in the iTunes store.
Gatorade's "Bolt!"
game came out in 2012 but is no longer listed in the iTunes store.
In the game, the fastest man alive, sprinter Usain Bolt , picks up gold coins as he races across the screen.
He runs faster and gains fuel if he hits a Gatorade icon, but he slows down and loses fuel if he hits a water droplet.
The opening instructions warn, "Keep your performance level high by avoiding water."
Instead it urges the player to "Grab Gatorade to fill your fuel meter."
The complaint alleges that Gatorade violated California consumer protection laws by making misleading statements about water, according to Becerra's office.
"Making misleading statements is a violation of California law.
But making misleading statements aimed at our children is beyond unlawful," Becerra said in a statement.
"It's morally wrong and a betrayal of trust.
"Today's settlement should make clear that the California Department of Justice will pursue false advertisers and hold them accountable," he said.
There was no admission of wrongdoing or liability by Gatorade as part of the settlement.
In addition to governing how the company depicts water, the settlement will require Gatorade to disclose endorser relationships in any social media posts.
It will also prohibit the company from advertising its products in the media when children under 12 make up more than 35% of the audience.
Gatorade must pay $300,000 to the California Attorney General's Office, $120,000 of which will be used to fund research or education about the importance of drinking water and proper nutrition in kids and teenagers.
The Gatorade Company, a subsidiary of PepsiCo, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
More than 2.3 million people downloaded the game, which was played 87 million times and "harnessed 4 million online fans," according to a 2013 presentation by marketing company Manning Gottlieb OMD.
The company helped create the game and talked about its success after "Bolt!"
won a marketing award.
The presentation says that "teen athletes often chose to drink water during practice because they thought it provided the proper hydration they needed, so we came up with an entertaining and competitive way to reinforce to teens that consuming Gatorade would help them perform better on the field and that water was the enemy of performance."
The presentation has since been removed from the award site but was archived elsewhere.
I got 326,325 in Bolt!
by @RockLive.
Get this free iPhone game and run with Usain Bolt!
Download here: http://t.co/9QDMzH5D  Mike Tyson (@MikeTyson) August 5, 2012

The presentation also outlined various celebrity endorsements from the likes of former boxer Mike Tyson and pop singer Justin Bieber.
CNN could not confirm that Bieber had tweeted about the game.
Representatives for Bieber have not responded to CNN's request for comment, and there was not a Manning Gottlieb OMD representative who could confirm how Bieber communicated about the game.
About 73% of players came from the company's target demographic of 13 to 24 years old, according to the presentation.
"And more importantly," it said, "with 820 million brand impressions, it drove home the idea that Gatorade is better than water."
That's the problem, said Jennifer Harris , a food and marketing expert with University of Connecticut's Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity.
"Companies are finding that teens are more skeptical of classic advertising and traditional television ads.
They tune them out," Harris said.
That's why there are more product placements in movies, TV shows and video games.
"It is a way to sort of deactivate the skepticism someone would have over a traditional ad.
"When this is disguised as entertainment, it distracts you, and the advertisement becomes more effective because your defense mechanism is lower," Harris said.
"When the industry aims these messages at young people, it raises public health concerns."
Water should be a child's "initial beverage of choice as long as daily dietary caloric and other nutrient (eg, calcium, vitamins) needs are being met," according to 2011 guidelines from the American Association of Pediatrics .
"Water is also generally the appropriate first choice for hydration before, during, and after most exercise regimens."
Kids rarely ever need sports drinks, the association has said, and their use should be limited to when "there is a need for more rapid replenishment of carbohydrates and/or electrolytes in combination with water during periods of prolonged, vigorous sports participation or other intense physical activity."
A 32-fluid-ounce bottle of Gatorade may contain as much as 56 grams of sugar

Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
With the rate of obesity more than doubling for US children and quadrupling in adolescents since the 1970s, many doctors have come to see sugary beverages as a threat to children's health.
(CNN) "Look, I'm so sorry to do this to you on your birthday," Hayley Webb, a television reporter in Australia, recalled her mom saying in 2012.
"I have six months to live."
A month later, her mother, Narelle, was calling her by the wrong name, hallucinating and falling over.
She could hear the cries of a baby she lost when he was 6 months old.
"Initially, we would try and reason with her, but we ended up playing into her reality to make it easier for her," said Hayley's brother, Lachlan, co-founder of an urban development startup.
Hayley and Lachlan Webb learned that their mom's illness could be inherited.
But perhaps most strikingly, their mother couldn't fall into a deep sleep.
"You're in this gray area, in this limbo land between being awake and being asleep," Webb said.
"You get into a perpetual stage of a dream."
She died in July 2012 at 61 years old.
The same thing happened to their grandmother -- and they learned it could be passed down to them.
'It's about mom'

Sonia Vallabh was in her second year at Harvard Law School in 2010 when her mother got sick.
Just months before, her mother had been healthy and vibrant, planning Vallabh's wedding to Eric Minikel.
"It was a small Indian wedding, by which I mean 300 people," Minikel said.
Vallabh's mother began having trouble with her eyesight, and her strange symptoms progressed to the point where she couldn't recognize her daughter.
Her muscles would jerk and spasm.
She spoke in tongues.
"She was fitful and couldn't really tell you if she'd been awake or asleep," Vallabh said.
Kamni Vallabh, left, was planning her daughter Sonia's wedding less than a year before she came down with a mysterious, debilitating illness.
By fall 2010, she was on life support, with needles, tubes and wires coming out of her.
"She looked like she was being tortured," Vallabh said.
"How could we ask this person to keep going?"
Her mother died in December 2010 at age 52.
Shortly thereafter, Vallabh's father, a doctor, pulled her aside during a visit home.
"I need to talk to you about something.
It's about mom," he said.
"We got her autopsy report.
Her disease was genetic."
A major discovery

In 1986, this disease was given a name : fatal familial insomnia, or FFI.
Much of what doctors first learned about the disease comes from a family in Venice, Italy, who have suffered from it for over 200 years.
"You'd have 14 kids in a generation.
Six or seven of them would die from the disease," said D.T.
Max , a writer for the New Yorker and author of the book "The Family That Couldn't Sleep."
The family, who prefer not to use their surnames, had kept the disease a family secret for generations, Max said.
Doctors listed their causes of death as "nervous exhaustion," encephalitis and even schizophrenia, he said.
"It's been a disaster.
A brutal suffering," said Lucia, 63, one member of the Italian family.
She has lost many relatives to the disease, including her father, brother and sister.
But when another family member, Silvano, started showing signs of the disease -- he began sweating profusely, with pinpoint pupils -- he decided it was time for his family to stop suffering in silence.
It was 1984, and he was 53 years old.
Silvano went to the University of Bologna, where researchers filmed his final months.
In some of the videos, his eyes are half-open, staring into space.
Just as it appears he's dozing off, he jerks to a half-wakefulness.
"Exactly what you can feel if you get a sleep attack when you are driving," said Dr. Pietro Cortelli , one of the researchers Silvano approached at the University of Bologna.
"You are falling asleep, and then you wake up."
In other videos, he is lying in bed, pretending to comb his hair or button an imaginary shirt.
Sleeping pills didn't work.
No matter what, his brain didn't allow him to reach the deeper, restorative stages of sleep.
"In few months, I'm going to die," Silvano told Cortelli.
"This is one of the few (chances) you have to discover what is the cause of the curse of my family."
Silvano died that year, in July 1984.
Cortelli and his mentor, Dr. Elio Lugaresi , shipped his brain tissue to Lugaresi's former student -- a pathologist in the United States who could take a much closer look at what was going on.
Dr. Pierluigi Gambetti , the pathologist and a professor at Case Western Reserve University, found that most of the brain tissue appeared normal.
But one small structure, near the center of the brain, looked "like a sponge," he said.
"At that moment, I knew what FFI probably was," he said.
A deadly typo

Gambetti had seen the spongelike pattern before -- just not like this.
His mind instantly shifted to a group of diseases caused by a protein known as a prion.
"There's this one protein that's sort of at the heart of this disease, the prion protein," Vallabh explained.
"This is a protein that we all have.
We're all producing it all the time, and it's part of normal biology, but it's capable of undergoing ... a change in shape."
When that change happens, it begins a domino effect.
The abnormal prion converts a healthy one, creating two abnormal ones.
They go off and convert two more.
And so on.
"As these prions spread, they're killing brain cells in their wake," Vallabh said.
In the case of FFI, these proteins mostly home in on two locations within a central brain structure: the thalamus.
The thalamus is often described as the brain's switchboard, relaying signals from one region to the next.
It plays a crucial role in movement, sight and many other processes.
The spongy tissue that Gambetti found in Silvano's thalamus was full of tiny holes: the aftermath of prions that left dead cells in their path.
And the two spots in the thalamus where he found those holes turned out to be crucial to the sleep-wake cycle.
Damaging them can lead to a persistent, deadly insomnia.
Lachlan Webb is taking part in a study of human prion diseases, hoping that researchers will find a cure for his own.
"We don't know why that specific mutation ... causes that particular part of the brain to be affected," said Dr. Michael Geschwind , a neurologist at University of California, San Francisco who runs a clinical study of prion diseases.
"That's a big mystery."
Perhaps the best-known prion disease is mad cow disease, which destroys the brains and spinal cords of infected cattle.
But there are other infectious forms: scrapie in sheep, kuru and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in humans.
There are several genetic forms too, including FFI.
FFI is caused by a single, dominant gene mutation, meaning the Webbs and Vallabh had a 50-50 chance of inheriting the gene themselves.
There is no cure.
"It was a typo that has unfortunately been passed on to the future generations," Hayley Webb said.
"A deadly typo."
People with the gene have no symptoms until later in life, when the disease suddenly hits.
Before that, the only way to know is to get tested for the gene.
"Being in limbo was the hardest time," Vallabh said of being tested.
"It was really hard to think about anything else."
Searching for a cure

When the results came in, the Webb siblings and Vallabh all tested positive for the FFI gene.
"I think I was more devastated about Lachlan's diagnosis than my own, because I just wasn't expecting it," said Hayley Webb, now 31.
"You know, I'm the big sister," she said of her 29-year-old brother.
"I want to protect him.
He's my little brother."
"You know when you get fuzzy-brained when you're really exhausted?"
Webb says in a video diary.
"I think, Crap!
Is that a symptom?
Subconsciously, you can't help but be scared."
But all of them have turned a dire test result into motivation, mirroring Silvano's determination to get to the bottom of his "family curse."
Hayley and Lachlan Webb are participating in Geschwind's study at UCSF.
Soon after learning that she had the FFI gene, Vallabh, 33, quit her job in consulting, began sitting in on classes at MIT and took biology courses at Harvard Extension School.
"My thought was, 'I'll take a sabbatical from my normal life, because this is something that's going to be important to us from now until the end,' " she said.
She and her husband, Minikel, switched career paths; they are now getting their Ph.D.s in biology at Harvard Medical School, where they are working to find a cure for FFI before it's too late.
They founded the Prion Alliance to advance the science of this rare disease, which is known to affect only a handful of families worldwide.
Sonia Vallabh and Eric Minikel became scientists after learning that Vallabh carried the gene for fatal familial insomnia.
Because they see human prion diseases under the same umbrella, they hope their research leads to treatments for more than just FFI.
"It's virtually unprecedented that two people with zero scientific background would parachute into science and start working in the laboratory to think up four or five completely different strategies for taking on a complex neurological disorder," said Eric S. Lander , president of the Broad Institute, where Vallabh and Minikel conduct their research.
"Then again, you know, unprecedented things happen all the time in science," Lander said.
Vallabh and Minikel remain optimistic and see FFI's rareness as an asset.
It's genetically well-defined -- more so than many more common diseases.
They know their prion target; they just have to find a way to remove it.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
They remain hopeful that their new daughter, whom they welcomed to the world in July, will watch her mother grow old.
Thanks to genetic testing and in vitro fertilization, their daughter does not have the FFI gene.
"The hope has to be always that you find a cure," pathologist Gambetti said.
"And therefore, maybe there will be a time in which we will cross out this adjective -- 'fatal' -- from the name of the disease."
A hospital patient who a Utah nurse said she was protecting when she refused to allow police to draw his blood has died.
William Gray, a commercial truck driver and reserve police officer, died late Monday of the injuries he suffered when a fiery July 26 crash left him with burns over nearly half his body, University of Utah Health spokeswoman Suzanne Winchester said.
Gray was unconscious at the Salt Lake City hospital when police detective Jeff Payne asked to draw his blood hours after the crash.
Nurse Alex Wubbels refused because hospital policy required a warrant or patient consent.
Payne handcuffed her and dragged her outside.
Gray was hauling a load of sand in northern Utah when a pickup truck speeding away from police crossed the center line and hit his truck head-on, causing an explosion.
State police had been trying to pull over the pickup driver after several people called 911 to report he was driving recklessly.
Gray was not suspected of wrongdoing,

The pickup driver, Marcos Torres, 26, died in the crash, and Utah police routinely collect such evidence from everyone involved in fatal crashes.
Dramatic video of Wubbels' arrest caught widespread attention online amid national scrutiny of police use of force.
Payne and the supervisor who backed him, Lt. James Tracy, were placed on leave amid internal and criminal investigations.
Salt Lake City police apologized and Chief Mike Brown is now considering possible discipline.
The officers' union has said Payne and Tracy have unfairly been made into pariahs.
Salt Lake Police Association president Stephen Hartney stopped short of defending Payne at a Tuesday news conference, but he lauded the detective's nearly three-decades as an officer.
Asked to assess how Payne handcuffed and dragged Wubbels out of the hospital, Hartney said: "Any resisting of arrest is embarrassing and does not look good," Hartney said.
Hartney acknowledged that the handling of police body camera footage is still new, but said he believes the footage of the arrest shouldn't have been released until the investigation is complete.
Salt Lake City officials have stood behind their decision to release it to Wubbels and her attorney.
"Sadly, right now everyone wants to see things immediately," Hartney said.
"We do need to make sure we give that time for due process."
Gray, 43, served with police in the southeastern Idaho city of Rigby.
Chief Sam Tower said he was dedicated to the community of about 4,000 people and plowed snow from a sidewalk last winter so neighborhood kids wouldn't have to walk in the street.
"Bill was truly the best of mankind," Rigby police said in a Facebook post.
"Always willing to help, always willing to go the extra mile.
Bill was a big man, with a bigger heart.
Everything about him was generous and kind."
Tower previously thanked Wubbels for her efforts to protect Gray's rights and prevent his blood from being drawn.
Congress is at a crossroads after Republicans' stinging failure to repeal Barack Obama's health care law.
But what's next  more partisan conflict or a pragmatic shift toward cooperation?
Unless Republicans and Democrats in Congress can work together, and bring along an often unpredictable President Donald Trump, political conflict over health care may spread.
Bipartisan talks on legislation to stabilize shaky insurance markets are on again, but time is short and there's no guarantee of success.
Congress also has yet to renew funding for programs that traditionally enjoy broad support, such as children's health insurance and community health centers, despite approaching deadlines.
Feelings were raw Tuesday after Senate GOP leaders announced they would not take their latest "repeal and replace" bill to the floor for lack of support.
Some lawmakers said it's still possible to bridge the partisan gap on a limited set of priority issues.
Sen. Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn., said he would resume efforts to reach a bipartisan deal with Sen. Patty Murray, D-Wash., to stabilize markets for individual insurance policies that 18 million people rely on.
More than half of those consumers are covered under the health law.
Alexander is chairman of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee; Murray is the top Democrat on the committee.
Alexander runs the risk of being accused by some fellow Republicans of trying to "bail out Obamacare."
Murray is under pressure from fellow Democrats not to make concessions to Alexander, who is seeking changes that would make it easier for states to get waivers from some of the law's requirements, potentially leading to plans with lower premiums.
"I'm still concerned about the next two years, and Congress has an opportunity to slow down premium increases in 2018, begin to lower them in 2019, and do our best to make sure there are no counties where people have zero options to buy health insurance," Alexander said in a statement.
Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., who has worked with Republicans on a range of health care issues, said cooperation is the only way to avoid creating needless problems for constituents.
"You recognize the opportunities that are in front of you," said Wyden, the top Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, which oversees health care funding.
"My hope is we can come together."
Wyden's list includes renewing the Children's Health Insurance Program for 9 million kids, whose funding expires this week, as well as short-term action to stabilize the Affordable Care Act's insurance markets, by guaranteeing subsidies for copayments and deductibles.
Experts say that could cut expected double-digit premium increases in many states by about half.
The missing ingredient seems to be leadership, say outside observers.
Neither Trump, nor House Speaker Paul Ryan nor Senate Majority Leader Mitch Connell has given clear approval for a bipartisan approach.
Some governors have called for a health care reset that would involve both parties working together on a limited agenda, but their suggestion hasn't been embraced in Washington.
"The question is whether you can you forge a coalition that doesn't include either the hard right or the hard left," said GOP health economist Gail Wilensky.
"I have not been able to answer who would provide the leadership for such an effort.
Neither the leadership in the House or the Senate has embraced the notion of trying to forge a bipartisan coalition, and it is very hard to move legislation without that."
Rep. Richard Neal, D-Mass., said Trump at a meeting with lawmakers raised the possibility of seeking a deal with Democrats.
There's no hint what that might entail.
If anything, Democrats have been moving to the left after Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., relaunched his "Medicare for all" plan recently.
Under Sanders' plan, government would pay for medical services, replacing employers and insurers.
Some liberal activists argue that support for "single-payer" should be a qualifying test for Democratic candidates in 2018 and beyond.
Other Democrats say single-payer would lead to political defeat, because of the massive tax increases required.
"It's not going to happen," said former Rep. Henry Waxman, D-Calif., one of the main authors of the Obama law.
"You can talk about it, and plant a flag, and say that's where you'd like to go, but in the meantime people need their insurance coverage."
Wednesday is the deadline for insurers to sign contracts to offer policies for 2018 on the health law's markets.
Sign-up season starts Nov. 1.
About half the 18 million Americans with individual policies get no subsidies under the health law.
Without congressional action some are facing premiums that rival a mortgage payment.
Saturday is the deadline for Congress to act on children's health insurance and community health center funding.
Brief delays are not expected to cause disruptions, but a protracted holdup would.
Online:

Senate committee: https://www.help.senate.gov/
Weeks after a veterans' health initiative received $2.1 billion in emergency funding, the Trump administration says the private-sector Veterans Choice health care program may need additional money as early as December to avoid a disruption of care for hundreds of thousands of veterans.
The Department of Veterans Affairs said in a statement Tuesday that it hoped to move quickly on a proposed long-term legislative fix that would give veterans even wider access to private doctors.
The proposal, under review by the White House Office of Management and Budget, would seek money to keep Choice running for much of next year as VA implements wider changes.
On Capitol Hill, the House Veterans Affairs Committee was already anticipating that the emergency funding approved in August may not last the full six months, according to spokespeople for both Republican and Democratic members on the panel.
They cited the VA's past problems in estimating Choice program cost.
That committee and the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee said they were closely monitoring the situation.
"It's disheartening," said Carlos Fuentes, legislative director of Veterans of Foreign Wars, citing his group's continuing conversations with VA about Choice funding.
"Imagine if a veteran has to cease chemotherapy treatment during Christmas."
Garry Augustine, executive director of Disabled American Veterans' Washington headquarters, said recent discussions with VA also gave him little confidence.
"It's always a concern," Augustine said.
"Legislative action needs to be done sooner rather than later."
In its statement to The Associated Press, VA said it could not say for certain when Choice funds would be depleted, but acknowledged that it could be as early as December or as late as March.
Earlier this year, the VA began limiting referrals to outside doctors as money began to run low and veterans reported delays in care.
The VA proposal for a long-term fix is expected to be released in the coming weeks.
"We have a long agenda, a lot more to do," VA Secretary David Shulkin told veterans last week at an event near Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.
"This fall, our major legislative focus is getting the Choice program working right."
The latest funding woes come amid political disagreement over the future direction of VA and its troubled Choice program, which was passed by Congress in 2014 in response to a wait-time scandal at the Phoenix VA medical center that spread nationwide.
Some veterans died while waiting months for appointments as VA employees manipulated records to hide delays.
The controversy spurred Congress to establish Choice as a pilot program designed to relieve pressure at VA hospitals.
Choice currently allows veterans to receive outside care if they must wait 30 days or more for an appointment or drive more than 40 miles to a VA facility.
But the program has encountered long delays of its own.
In a sign of a political divide, the left-leaning VoteVets ran a $400,000 ad campaign earlier this month in 13 states that warned viewers, "Don't let Trump privatize my VA." The American Federation of Government Employees has been staging rallies to bring attention to VA job vacancies left unfilled.
The VA said it remains committed to filling VA positions even as it finalizes plans to revamp Choice.
VA said it had about 34,000 vacancies, which they attributed in part to a shortage of health professionals.
Legislative proposals to fix VA have run the gamut, including one backed by the conservative Concerned Veterans for America that would give veterans almost complete freedom to see an outside doctor.
Another plan could create a presidential commission to review closing some VA medical centers.
"Congress can either double-down on the failed VA policies of the past or they can go in a different direction and empower veterans with more choice over their health care," said Dan Caldwell, policy director of Concerned Veterans for America.
During the presidential campaign, Trump repeatedly pledged to fix the VA by bringing accountability and expanding access to private doctors, criticizing the department as "the most corrupt."
At an Ohio event in July, Trump promised to triple the number of veterans "seeing the doctor of their choice."
More than 30 percent of VA appointments are made in the private sector.
Carrie Farmer, senior policy researcher for the RAND Corp., said the Choice debate raises broader questions about the role of government-run health care in treating veterans.
To many former troops, the VA health system is a "medical home" where patients feel more understood by doctors specially trained to treat battlefield injury, such as post-traumatic stress disorder.
Significantly expanding Choice could upend that government role as caretaker, she said.
"The big question is ultimately who will be responsible for our veterans' care?"
Farmer said.
Follow Hope Yen on Twitter at https://twitter.com/hopeyen1
Middle-aged women are prescribed more opioids than any other group -- twice as many as middle-aged men -- making them particularly vulnerable to opioid abuse, according to a new report released today.
The report, which looked at data from 600 private hospitals and more than 78,000 patients, sheds new light on those most affected by the opioid epidemic ravaging the U.S. President Donald Trump has referred to the crisis as a "national emergency."
"More people die from prescription opioid overdose than from heroin overdose per year," Dr. Jennifer Holder-Murray, co-director of the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center Enhanced Recovery After Surgery Program told ABC News.
In addition to being prescribed more opioids than anyone else, women aged 40 through 59 also have the highest death rate from opioids among women, according to the report, titled United States for Non-Dependence: An Analysis of the Impact of Opioid Overprescribing in America."
Kristina Crews Miller, a Florida mother of three told ABC News that she fell into opioid addiction following a routine operation to remove cysts from her ovaries.
"I went to my family doctor, who I was referred to after a minor surgery," Crews Miller said.
"There was a new doctor, and he prescribed me my first prescription of Oxycontin, right after surgery."
ABC News

Crews Miller said that she initially did not think that prescriptions coming from a doctor could cause her harm, saying, "Why would you not trust your doctor?"
"Growing up you dont think of that ... you know youre not going to do street drugs, and you know you're not going to be an alcoholic," she added.
She says she realized she was addicted to her medication when she returned to work following her surgery, saying, "I did not survive two hours at work, I was sweating, I was nauseous, I was dizzy, I was weak."
Although she has now recovered from her addiction, Crews Miller told ABC News, "I overdosed twice in front of my kids."
The report, sponsored by Pacira Pharmaceuticals, Inc., calls surgery a "gateway to persistent opioid use and potential misuse" in its key findings.
It also argues that surgery-related overprescribing results in 3.3 billion unused pills which become available for misuse.
"What's startling and really bothersome in this study is the number of patients that are on opioids well after the surgery's been completed," Holder-Murray said.
The report concluded that nearly 3 million patients in 2016 who underwent surgery continued taking opioids beyond their postsurgical recovery period.
Crews Miller said she is now making it her mission to raise awareness, saying, "people are dying everyday."
"Its time to end the stigma, and stop being so judgmental and help, they're sick, theyre not not human because theyre active in addiction," she added.
The author of a new book argues that what you feed your gut, which he calls your "second brain," can have an effect on your mood, your weight and your immune system.
"The 'clever gut diet' basically is what I describe as a Mediterranean-style diet," Dr. Michael Mosley, author of "The Clever Gut Diet: How to Revolutionize Your Body From the Inside Out," told ABC News.
His diet includes staples such as fruits and vegetables, as well as dark chocolate, turmeric and fermented foods.
"Fermented foods are absolutely packed with good bacteria," Mosley said.
"So every single teaspoon of that stuff has got tens of billions of living bacteria."
Recommended fermented foods to add to your diet include kombucha, kefir, and "smelly cheeses," according to Mosley.
Mosley recommends thinking of your gut as a garden, where prebiotics and fiber act as a fertilizer.
The crop is the more than 20 trillion bacteria growing in your gut.
Prebiotics are "nondigestible carbohydrates that act as food for probiotics," according to Mayo Clinic, a health system with locations across the country.
"The number of microbes down there and the sort of shape that they are in largely depends on what you eat and what you drink," Mosley said.
"Because everything you don't digest, feeds them."
Mosley adds that many Americans have ruined their gut with junk food and excessive use of antibiotics, but he said new scientific research is looking at how a change in diet may be able to reprogram your physical and psychological well-being.
"Can we, for example, reduce anxiety and depression by giving people either different foods ... foods rich in fiber, or probiotics, or prebiotics?"
Mosley said.
While many questions still remain in the medical community about the connection between your gut and mind, some new studies indicate a link between the gut and immune system health.
"We do know anecdotally people who eat better and have healthier guts tend to get sicker less, they tend to have less systemic inflammation," Maya Feller, a New York-based registered dietitian, said on "Good Morning America."
"And they also have better weight management and also [are better at] being aware of [whether] theyre hungry or not."
Feller recommends people try to increase their intake of fiber.
Men should aim for 38 grams of fiber per day, while women should aim for 25 grams per day, she said.
On a daily basis, Feller advised adding vegetables to both breakfast and lunch and including non-starchy vegetables as three-quarters of your dinner plate.
"Any chance you get, snacks are vegetables," she said.
"You want to push the fiber in there at any opportunity."
The last-gasp Republican drive to tear down President Barack Obama's health care law essentially died Monday as Maine Sen. Susan Collins joined a small but decisive cluster of GOP senators in opposing the push.
The Maine moderate said in a statement that the legislation would make "devastating" cuts in the Medicaid program for poor and disabled people, drive up premiums for millions and weaken protections Obama's law gives people with pre-existing medical conditions.
She said the legislation is "deeply flawed," despite eleventh-hour changes its sponsors have made in search of support.
The only way Republicans could resuscitate their push would be to change opposing senators' minds, which they've tried unsuccessfully to do for months.
Collins told reporters that she made her decision despite a phone call from President Donald Trump, who's been futilely trying to press unhappy GOP senators to back the measure.
"They're still working it and a lot of conversations are going on," No.
3 Senate GOP leader John Thune of South Dakota told reporters.
But he conceded that a revival would be "a heavy lift" and the prospects were "bleak."
The collapse marks a replay of the embarrassing loss Trump and party leaders suffered in July, when the Senate rejected three attempts to pass legislation erasing Obama's 2010 statute.
The GOP has made promises to scrap the law a high-profile vow for years, and its failure to deliver despite controlling the White House and Congress has infuriated conservatives whose votes Republican candidates need.
Republicans had pinned their last hopes on a measure by GOP Sens.
Bill Cassidy of Louisiana and South Carolina's Lindsey Graham.
It would end Obama's Medicaid expansion and subsidies for consumers and ship the money  $1.2 trillion through 2026  to states to use on health services with few constraints.
With their narrow 52-48 majority and solid Democratic opposition, three GOP "no" votes would doom the bill.
GOP Sens.
John McCain of Arizona, Rand Paul of Kentucky and Texas' Ted Cruz have said they oppose the measure, though Cruz aides said he was seeking changes that would let him vote yes.
Sen. Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska, remains undecided.
Murkowski, who voted against the failed GOP bills in July, has said she's analyzing the measure's impact on her state, where medical costs are high.
The Senate must vote this week for Republicans to have any chance of prevailing with their narrow margin.
Next Sunday, protections expire against a Democratic filibuster, bill-killing delays that Republicans lack the votes to overcome.
It was unclear if Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., would hold a roll call.
Thune said he believed McConnell would have a vote if Republicans "have at least some hope that we would pass it."
Collins announced her decision shortly after the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said "millions" of Americans would lose coverage under the bill and projected it would impose $1 trillion in Medicaid cuts through 2026.
Desperate to win over reluctant senators, GOP leaders revised the measure several times, adding money late Sunday for Alaska, Arizona, Maine, Kentucky and Texas in a clear pitch for Republican holdouts.
They also gave states the ability  without federal permission  to permit insurers to charge people with serious illnesses higher premiums and to sell low-premium policies with big coverage gaps and high deductibles.
Collins said the eleventh-hour revision "epitomizes the problems" with the GOP-only process.
Collins decision drew a shout-out from late night talk-show host Jimmy Kimmel, who tweeted, "Thank you @SenatorCollins for putting people ahead of party.
We are all in your debt."
Kimmel had been an outspoken critic of the bill.
Kentucky's Paul said the bill spent too much and said Republicans were motivated by fear of punishment by conservative voters if they failed.
"It's like a kidney stone.
Pass it, pass it, pass it," Paul told reporters.
Loud protesters forced the Senate Finance Committee to briefly delay the chamber's first and only hearing on the charged issue.
Police lugged some demonstrators out of the hearing room and trundled out others in wheelchairs as scores chanted, "No cuts to Medicaid, save our liberty."
On Monday, Trump took on McCain, who'd returned to the Senate after a brain cancer diagnosis in July to cast the key vote that wrecked this summer's effort.
Trump called that "a tremendous slap in the face of the Republican Party" in a call to the "Rick & Bubba Show," an Alabama-based talk radio program.
Cassidy and Graham defended their bill before the Finance committee.
"I don't need a lecture from anybody about health care," Graham told the panel's Democrats.
Referring to Obama's overhaul, he added, "What you have created isn't working."
Also appearing was Sen. Mazie Hirono, D-Hawaii, who learned earlier this year that she has kidney cancer.
She said colleagues and others have helped her battle the disease with compassion, saying, "Sadly, this is not in this bill."
Associated Press Washington bureau chief Julie Pace and writers Andrew Taylor, Richard Lardner, Laurie Kellman, Ken Thomas and Erica Werner contributed to this report.
With the latest Republican health care overhaul teetering near collapse, one group in particular is watching with heightened anxiety.
The debate in Congress is personal for many of those who gained coverage through Medicaid in the 31 states that expanded the program under former President Barack Obama's Affordable Care Act.
Alan Purser, who lives in eastern Arkansas, credits expanded Medicaid with saving his life, after a routine doctor's visit ended with him being hospitalized and treated for multiple blood clots in both lungs.
The 60-year-old diabetic said he would not be able to afford his insulin medication because he does not qualify for traditional Medicaid.
"I am going to be up a creek if it goes through," he said.
The Medicaid expansion brought health insurance to some 11 million lower-income Americans, helping drive the nation's uninsured rate to just 9 percent.
That program would have ended in three years under the initial version of the Republican's latest health care bill, triggering widespread uncertainty for both recipients and states facing the prospect of winding down their coverage.
The latest GOP effort appeared to be doomed late Monday when Republican Sen. Susan Collins of Maine announced her opposition, citing in part the proposed cuts to Medicaid that she described as "devastating."
With Democrats united in opposition, the only way Republicans can revive the bill is to alter it in ways they hope will change opposing senators' minds.
The bill's demise is welcome news to New Jersey state Sen. Joseph Vitale, a Democrat, who says the legislation would have been devastating for people who are covered through the Medicaid expansion.
"They can now go to sleep at night like the rest of us who have health insurance, knowing that if something happens to them or something befalls a family member," Vitale said Tuesday, "that they have access to affordable care and quality care."
States signed up for the Medicaid expansion under the promise that the federal government would pick up the vast majority of the costs.
Experts and officials in several of the states that opted for it said that under the GOP plan they would not have the ability to cover the costs of all those who benefited.
"I don't want to have to look those people in the eye and say you are losing your health insurance," said Nevada state Assemblyman Michael Sprinkle, a Democrat.
In his state, more than 300,000 people gained health insurance through the expansion, which extended coverage to more lower-income Americans by raising the income limit.
Most were adults with no children at home.
Kentucky was another state seeing big gains under Obama's health care law, its uninsured rate dropping from 14.3 percent before it took effect to 5.1 percent last year.
The 64 percent decline was the largest of any state, according to data from the U.S. Census Bureau.
Nearly all that gain was because Kentucky's former Democratic governor opted to expand Medicaid, which provided coverage to 461,000 Kentuckians.
The state also is home to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who is among those leading the Republican effort to dismantle the law, and now has a Republican governor who also favors repeal.
John Holbrook, of Ashland, does not want to see the law repealed.
He received substance abuse treatment under the Medicaid expansion, after being hospitalized with a dangerously high blood-alcohol level in December 2015.
"I would be dead or still homeless," said Holbrook, 36, who now works as a peer support specialist at a private treatment facility that accepts Medicaid.
"Working in recovery, I see it changing lives every day."
The original version of the GOP bill would end funding for expansion enrollees in 2020, among other changes that would shift more of the financial responsibility of the $500 billion-plus overall Medicaid program to the states.
States already spend, on average, about 25 percent of their budgets on Medicaid.
Republicans have long sought to rework the program in an effort to rein in federal spending.
But cutting the program and shifting more responsibility away from the federal government creates tricky math for the states.
In California, 3.8 million residents gained health coverage under the expansion, and a third of the state's population is enrolled in Medicaid.
Given that, there is little chance the state program would be able to exist in its current form under the GOP plan.
A state analysis of a similar GOP proposal found that California would be on the hook for an additional $30 billion a year starting a decade from now, and that didn't factor in the total elimination of federal funding for the expansion population.
"We can't come up with that kind of money," said Phil Ting, a Democrat who is chairman of the budget committee in the state Assembly.
"It's like picking and choosing between your thumb and your pinky, what we could protect."
Under the Republican bill, all the federal money currently being spent in various states on expansion would be collected, beginning in 2020, into a single pool.
It would include other funding that is being used for subsidies that have helped an additional 12 million people buy private health insurance through government-sponsored markets.
That money would then be shared among all states based partly on how many lower-income adults they have.
Under the initial version of the bill, that additional money would stop entirely in 2027.
Stephanie McCoin of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, fears her 27-year-old daughter will be among those hurt by efforts to undo the Medicaid expansion.
She has a chronic adrenal condition, and at one point before the Affordable Care Act went to emergency rooms eight times in a little over a month because she couldn't afford insurance.
"I'm afraid that if she loses this," McCoin said, "she will die."
Cassidy reported from Atlanta.
Follow the reporters on Twitter at http://twitter.com/APChristina and http://www.twitter.com/geoffmulvihill.
The Latest on the Republican effort to overhaul the Obama health law (all times local):

7 p.m.

Senate Republicans have conceded defeat on their last-ditch effort to repeal and replace "Obamacare."
The bill's authors acknowledge they don't have the votes ahead of a critical deadline at the end of this week.
President Donald Trump is slamming 'certain so-called Republicans' and Majority Leader Mitch McConnell says the focus will now turn to tax reform.
Sen. Lindsey Graham, a sponsor of the latest, last-ditch effort, says Republicans are going to fulfill the promise they've made to voters and the GOP base for the past seven years.
2:39 p.m.

Senate Republicans are insisting they won't give up on repealing and replacing the Obama health care law even as they abandoned plans for a vote this week.
Majority Leader Mitch McConnell told reporters after a closed-door luncheon in which the GOP decided not to hold the vote: "We haven't given up on changing the American health care system.
We aren't going to be able to do it this week."
Sen. Lindsey Graham, a sponsor of the latest, last-ditch effort, said Republicans are going to fulfill the promise they've made to voters and the GOP base for the past seven years.
But it was clear that the GOP is moving on to the next complicated legislative priority.
McConnell said: "Where we go from here is tax reform."
2:05 p.m.

Senate Republicans will not vote this week on the latest, last-ditch effort to repeal and replace Barack Obama's Affordable Care Act.
That's the word from senators as they emerged from a closed-door meeting on Tuesday.
Sen. Jeff Flake of Arizona shook his head and said "no" when asked about plans for a vote.
The setback marks the end for the latest drive to overturn the law, a promise the GOP has made to voters for seven years.
The latest iteration of the bill was sponsored by Sens.
Bill Cassidy and Lindsey Graham, but opposition from at least three Republican senators in the narrowly-divided Senate sunk the measure's chances.
Democrats were unified in their opposition.
11:52 a.m.

A new analysis finds that 34 states and Washington, D.C., would lose money under the newest version of the Republican health care bill.
This is despite last-minute changes to the legislation.
Overall, states would get $205 billion less in federal health care money from 2020-2026, according to the analysis from consulting firm Avalere Health, which was released Tuesday.
States that expanded Medicaid to cover low-income adults, as well as those where lots of residents have signed up for subsidized private health insurance, were more likely to be losers under the Graham-Cassidy bill.
The latest changes soften the magnitude of the funding shifts, but the end result remains similar.
Half the 30 states President Donald Trump won last year would lose money.
Losses would grow over time.
Sixteen states would gain money.
11 a.m.

President Donald Trump says he's "disappointed in certain so-called Republicans" who have opposed the latest GOP attempt to repeal former President Barack Obama's health care overhaul.
Trump tells reporters at the White House that "we'll see what happens" on whether the Senate will vote on the plan, which has suffered from Republican defections.
Trump says he's "very disappointed by a couple of senators," adding, "We don't know why they did it."
The president says "at some point there will be a repeal and replace" of the health care law.
But Republican leaders in the Senate are conceding that their prospects for repealing the law are dismal.
10:40 a.m.

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell says the partisan debate over the country's health care system will "certainly continue."
The Kentucky Republican spoke as he tries to decide whether to hold a vote on the latest GOP bill repealing President Barack Obama's law.
That measure seems almost certain to be defeated if a roll call were held.
The Republican legislation would transform much "Obamacare" spending into grants states could spend on health programs with few constraints.
McConnell called that proposal a "stark contrast" to a plan by Vermont independent Sen. Bernie Sanders.
That measure is backed by many Democrats and would create government-run health insurance.
McConnell says Sanders' plan would "rip" health insurance from people.
He called the issue an important debate and said, "It's one that we'll certainly continue."
9:35 a.m.
The White House says it believes a Senate health care bill that appears headed for defeat is "still good legislation."
Spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders says the White House is "fully committed" to improving the health care system and that the Senate bill would do that.
With no Democratic support expected, three "no" votes from Republicans would appear to doom the bill.
Republicans control 52 Senate seats and Sens.
Susan Collins of Maine, John McCain of Arizona and Rand Paul of Kentucky have said they will not vote for the bill.
Sanders held out hope that opposing lawmakers might change their minds, or that undecided senators  like Lisa Murkowski of Alaska  will support it.
Senate Republican leaders have conceded that prospects for passing the measure this week appear dismal.
3:43 a.m.

Republican Sen. Susan Collins' decision to oppose the GOP push to repeal President Barack Obama's health care overhaul leaves the effort all but dead.
Even party leaders concede that their prospects are dismal.
South Dakota Sen. John Thune, the No.
3 GOP Senate leader, says reviving the push would be a heavy lift.
Thune made the comment after Collins joined a small but pivotal cluster of Republicans saying they're against the measure.
GOP Sens.
John McCain of Arizona, Rand Paul of Kentucky and Ted Cruz of Texas are also against the legislation, though Cruz aides say he might back it if changes are made.
Alaska's Lisa Murkowski is a Republican who's undecided.
With their narrow Senate majority, defections by three GOP senators would doom the bill.
Transcript for Women particularly vulnerable to opioid addiction, study finds

We'll turn to our health alert.
That headline about women and prescription painkillers and why they are becoming addicted.
We'll talk to Jen Ashton in a moment, but first a look at the new report.
Reporter: This morning, the report revealing that women are most at risk when it comes to opioids.
30% more prescriptions written for women than for men.
40% for female surgery patients become persistent users like 39-year-old Christina Cruz Miller, mother of three daughters.
Dy what they said, I followed up with my doctor.
I trusted him.
Reporter: Christina says he was prescribed okaysy cotton after removing cysts from her ovaries and had never haergd of the drugs before, but became addicted to prescription pills for 3 1/2 years.
Overdosing twice before beginning her road to recovery.
I hated what I was, and I was embarrassed and ashamed and was content my family would be better off without me.
Reporter: That new report funded by pacira, called united States for nondependence, and opioid overprescribing, finds seven common surgeries are often being prescribed far more pills than they need.
What's startling and really bothersome in the study is the number of patients that are on opioids well after the surgery has been completed.
Reporter: The study concluding 3 million patients continued taking them three months or longer after surgery, and Christina is not alone.
11.7 billion opioid painkillers like oxy cotton and vicodin were prescribed in 2016.
If you laid them down end to end, they would crisscross the country 50 times.
More people die from opioid prescription overdose than from heroin per year.
That is startling.
Dr. Jennifer Ashton is here.
You can be in pain after post-surgery.
Are there any other options though?
Do people -- should we ask questions as a patient?
100% because an informed patient is the most ideal patient, but it's a catch 22 here because pain delays surgical healing and recovery so there's the balance about giving other options.
If you are facing surgery, you want to ask a couple of questions.
Could you make inflammatories or use ice therapy.
Sometimes that's an option.
You should always request the lowest dose if you need an opioid narcotic for the shortest period of time.
It's basic pharmacology, and our awareness needs to be ratcheted up and we're talking about this class of medication.
This number will startle people.
According to the CDC, 33,000 died from overdoses in 2015.
Many what do we know about the addiction?
There is intense research now going on, robin in the area of research medicine.
It's the reward system in the brain is hijacked and we don't know why people are prone to become addicted.
We know it happens, and you have to be aware of the warning signs.
If you are taking more opioid narcotics and you can't cut down, that's a sign.
If you are constantly nauseated or vomiting, itchy, sedated, or have pinpoint pupils, these are signs you need to seek help.
This can be life-threatening and we see that every single day.
As a doctor, why are women prescribed it more than men?
Again, another sex gender issue.
We don't know that.
Women suffer more chronic pain than men, and they seem to be given, you know, higher doses for longer periods of time.
They are often on other medications that have been implicated in these overdose deaths, and again, pregnancy.
This is a massive problem in my specialty.
We're seeing a lot of pregnant women already come in dependent on narcotics and infants born addicted.
Big push to lower this problem.
As a patient, we need to ask other options, right?
We need the do better.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for 3rd Republican senator declares 'no' vote on health care

More on the Republicans' last-ditch effort to repeal the affordable care act.
Time is running out.
GOP lawmakers are facing a Saturday deadline and our congressional correspondent, Mary Bruce, is on capitol hill with the latest on where things stand.
Good morning, Mary.
Reporter: Good morning, robin.
After seven years, Republicans still can't agree on a path forward to overhaul Obamacare.
This morning, three Republicans are now a no, which means for now, this latest health care bill isn't going anywhere.
With the bill facing a growing backlash -- This morning, the latest Republican health care plan appears to be dead.
Maine senator Susan Collins delivering what is the fatal blow saying she cannot support the bill.
It is clear to me that the graham/cassidy bill was not the answer.
Reporter: Her objections to the bill?
The deep cuts to medicaid.
Weakened protections to people with pre-existing conditions, and the fear that premiums for many would likely rise.
She joins Rand Paul and John McCain, but they are vowing to fight on.
We're going to press on, and it's okay to vote.
It's okay to fall short if you do for an idea you believe in.
Reporter: Opposition to the bill boiled over on Monday as protesters took to the halls of the capitol.
If you want a hearing, you better shut up.
Reporter: Protesters hauled off and arrested.
Many in wheelchairs.
This woman came from Wyoming for her voice to be heard.
Her daughter is in a wheelchair.
Her daughter-in-law, battling her fourth round of cancer.
What do you want lawmakers to hear from you and everyone else in this line?
Be human.
Care about insurance for everyone.
Not just yourselves or your relatives.
Care about everyone, even the poor.
They need it.
Reporter: So what comes next here?
Well, Republicans will now likely have to work with Democrats on a bipartisan solution to repair Obamacare, but for now, their signature promise to repeal and replace it is out of reach, George.
They have to decide whether to pull the plug around noon today.
Thanks very much.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for What to know about the new 'clever gut diet'

Do you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for GOP releases new version of health care bill

Did it Dorian and them though.
Jack that's the issue if they wanted to protest here and as a fan of that sport and a devoted one except for yesterday.
When you have so I an actor and actress and they are.
Very vocal politically I can still watch their television show or go see one of their movies.
And not be subjected.
To their political opinion hats.
It is completely wrote the two or completely removed in terms up.
They're wore their craft.
Their product and how they feel about the president or some other political issue.
But with football is a upfront pull lid hot Poland eyes nation.
Of this issue in you can't get away from it that's what's gonna hurt that sport potentially.
So that they can you you may be right but let's keep in mind the National Anthem the players vignali even come out for that that's just another regional that hit it right.
Yeah as the exact exact declared him to come out for next year's most guys.
They're the pick.
There are there to play football.
Fans of they'll watch football games not to watch the National Anthem the only reason why people are politicizing it to be honest reviews because recover and they didn't in folks are talking about it but the players themselves.
When you're getting ready we'll full blog name you've got to do do a lot of these speaking in preparing and indeed your body's.
Hello my worry is that it but hey why they feeling that I.
The red met Maria outlet how would you stated it most doubled Spain but that that's not the point yes I don't let up a lot more.
Allow more ticket Neil because the main problems on the predicted.
Yet Jason Jack.
Jason she fits here.
So what's gonna happen next Sunday and how to what I mean where does this end like wit where's the conclusion of this at what point does this actually.
Conclude what is that happen.
Dates and you know what may in the National Anthem is is no place where we need to start you know.
Politicizing being I mean there's there's a hundred different ways we can talk about those EC issues a fight association.
Pump but you know hopefully in my opinion matter I I'll hope the clear just data locker room prepare for the game and they can.
They can they that they can hide the flag anywhere you know you can salute the flag anywhere you don't have to do that he is in public.
I hope they go back to that couldn't get away from this you focus them back all all play a full ball but more importantly come together as a country.
You got a lot of people who seeded C at a I would be saying players and they just don't realize.
Because you stick out without Laden's support and his his teammate and in some of these from some of these me and that's the way they know when understand.
Help that took the stand up for rights that they believe dating.
As Americans as long as they're doing it peacefully.
You know would we gotta have some understanding about that I think we've taken is too far.
Hopefully this did speak to bring us together not divide us both first and foremost we need our leader.
We need the leader of the constant.
The stand up and bring us together and not talk about guys like that because all you're going to throw the first punch these guys the bill plus back yeah.
Hello same way where we get a got a punch back and.
That's what happened well I'll point this out that Ali on drove build in the way about the only Pittsburgh steeler who did not stay in the locker room.
Who stood on that scale with his hand over his heart a West Point grad former army ranger three tours of duty in Afghanistan.
If you look up on fanatics this morning and under the Steelers Jersey is top sell our bill nueva jurors say.
The area and ops well I'd opt plug that up loud that now hijacked created such a new appreciate you joining us this morning Q.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Kaiser Permanente CEO has faith Congress can improve Affordable Care

of you.
Let's turn to before nard J. Tyson, chair and CEO of Kaiser permanente.
Good morning.
You just heard the senators.
They are not going to say this bill is going down.
But it is on life support, if anything.
You're CEO of a nonprofit health system that sevens almost 12 million Americans.
Where do we go here?
P I think prior to this bill being proposed, there was a bipartisan committee looking at what it takes to stabilize the affordable care act.
I met with senators.
I testified.
I believe they're on the right track to come up with few answers that will help to stabilize the current law.
What is the single most important thing congress can do the stabilize the law?
Reach a consensus to stabilize and create a more come pet tiff marketplace.
One is the cost re -- sharinging reduction the csc.
You have probably heard a lot about.
It needs to be funded.
Number two is to provide the state with additional flexibility while maintaining guidelines at the federal level.
You have spoken to the president.
You testified before congress.
You do seem to have faith they can work this out somehow eventually.
Absolutely.
I mean, the affordable care act is not perfect.
It is moving in the right direction.
This is about providing coverage for the all miles an hours of the American health care system.
We have 20-plus million more covered because of the ACA.
It's the ig best piece of law passed for health care since medicare and medicaid of 1965.
It took years for those programs to be stabilized.
It will take years for this to be stabilized.
There's a few things that could happen to create the competitive marketplace.
To get the insurance, other insurance companies back into the market if the they did a couple of things to the existing law.
Quickly.
Your reaction to what the senator said about their bill with pre-existing conditions and adequate and affordable.
Prior to the ACA, insurance companies could exclude people who have pre-existing conditions.
And/or, if they provided coverage, it was so expensive.
One important point that was made this morning that I want everybody to pay attention to.
There's a difference between having access to coverage versus access to care.
So, one might be able to afford access to coverage.
But with the deductibles and all the additional costs to access care, that person could have coverage but still can't afford to get the care.
The affordable care act was intended to bridge the gap between those two issues that happens inside of the industry.
Thank you so much for joining us this morning, Mr. Tyson.
We appreciate your point of view.
Thank you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for 'Real Live:' Study finds link between youth head trauma and long-term brain issues

CT.
Which we're we're getting excited to sports guys in here you know.
But Jones and write a very divisive topic indeed.
For years you know there's been reports.
Just actual players.
Just having this disease which is just hearing crop you know cross the spore and families in an ex players.
And hand the latest person to usually diagnosed at posthumously so that's the trouble with CTE an air and this is the lack as the latest.
Full war.
That's crazy first of all reactions someone so young having disease.
And then what does it mean with someone who was convicted of murder in jail for life of his own life late.
Does that factor as far as motives and things like that.
I think resident at the guidance it CT and I think football is always this article offseason is in this currency's.
Gains.
Happen as it should.
Because and it the policies in the most viewers are watching that's where one time of these cultural conversations about how the players is as you mentioned your right allotment IKEA highest category category three ETE is one more category it's hard and that.
Activities happening.
With cemeteries are saying is that OC TV creates depression.
Paulson this as are wondering clay into him committing suicide.
We get to determine whether an evening to do with the homicide that was created when he was three hammers he created.
But there is that meets at art snared.
But what's more confusing two incidents like we're going to go on as a nation in terms partly teacher youth.
Rain and then who encouraged him to stay in football or opt out of football I think that conversation that's.
It's there's two points who you had a really great description so what we're gonna do with actually through it's a clip doctor Jennifer and Ashton.
Without it there Joe Brown her hair indicated.
It has a really good this description of what this isn't what this diseases and how you get a sense I want order Roloson you can understand more and layman's terms.
For sure annually for members CT neuro degenerative brain disorder caused by repeated head trauma.
Causing symptoms of memory loss aggression depression in some cases suicidal behavior.
We can only diagnosed this on autopsy now there is no screening test yet for this just recently speaks study in JAMA out in July.
Found evidence of CT in 199%.
Of deceased NFL players' brains now there could be bias involved there because those players may have been having symptoms.
Therefore more likely to donate their brains for study.
And again there could be other factors involved in terms of the pathology of CT we're just at the beginning of understanding.
So that was this morning and GMA.
As as we mentioned before it's it's only can only diagnosis afterwards I think we've.
Hopefully in the were missing concussion I learned a lot from that LaBeouf and read surged.
It's just leave things be a very.
Large growing stain on the national football.
And what will do moving forward with this beloved game that essentially anyone aligns movies like.
It's Sunday today of the week that's churches but now the national football the islands that are in this.
With this you know prevalent disease that doesn't seem to be anywhere around you know I think the speed the strait the size of of the players hitting each other there's no turning back.
They're not gonna stop being you know big and fast and stronger can this take down institution.
Like the NFL.
By may be making people less congested because of what it's doing to people.
I think that was the discussion acting.
A rose while Allen prior to this but during the afternoon session came out people are just like you know.
That in do when it wasn't rated movie but it didn't think it.
You can rent and there.
But I think a lot of Chris eight to collect mrs. criticism for her.
Quote quote taking down and that what he just not ready for a lot of people despite you know obviously you evidence it would have been cases people have.
Issues when it anything at targets it's obvious that now.
An interesting bit to can't literally picking up on as a result the conversation at rock and questions.
The NFL Rothman never came out and said that there is at times we CTE.
And it though player until very recently.
Once they can they always thought they said this is true this is admit there is Portland's I don't institutions years ago I mean really funny because they know.
You could see how much this is going to effect.
The fabric of this game you.
It effects of fabric the decision saying with monster pipeline you rob is a point we talked about you know Sunday is not reserved for football there is is gladiator.
You know kinda essence around football that that's for the fans like Wright would get those big hits.
It's those big plays kind of sit back and accountant Sunday Eagles blow right anyway for the hide it with a Monday morning zeal is B kit that's the keep us engage it its that of a play where there's not a lot of big hits going we said against getting boring it is not athletic play for guys are catching that the full body pat.
Had a helmet.
About one of those two things we say the game is getting bored.
Tipped to be there at NFL they army get some change in terms of height and tackle hike in his high protect the quarterbacks is different things at play when it comes of that.
Nothing that Pope walked that a Palestinian long term they're thinking.
Do parents opt out there tutoring playing football and how that affect their pipeline going forward if they're sorry to do you.
Flag football is that tackle football are high that affect them mature into the sport themselves.
How that affected circulation to college within its relations and it now so the and it was really taken big interest into the pop Warner aspect because with.
Reported saying is that.
It's really between the age of ten and twelve.
That it's out of my elected I have long term acts being pre can cost if you will by having so much it hit combat that.
Do you feel comfortable and in.
And it will in Nazi little children and an unknown that's not another sort of it and I Q would you let your kids play football.
I you.
That would actually V that would let them at the seriously consider an output boxing in the areas you know alliance context was here with Regis.
Attacking some money but that's part of the sport it's.
This is Jon Robin as a.
Good question actually act and I would say yes that I would cut.
And the reason why I will be one those fathers will be advocate on this island to make sure.
That might shoot my child's teen had adequate sports trainer had most advanced equipment that it's possible but happened doctors physicians on hand.
But then that kind of goes to where we are with class right right into the classes them.
Great school districts with.
To financial support our it would so for those trainers doctors physicians on hand it.
Where those who come from more rural more urban community that it had the budgeting where cover that.
Are less protected the.
Because they don't have a doctors they don't have it right into acting which house NFL.
To partner in war with the district that don't have great financial support and backing for their head athletic teams to ensure.
That those students are covered too as well to protect the future other pipeline as they want either a become fans of and if not watch every Sunday.
Or B become players.
The only time that might yet the much what we think about the trend lately it young players union that gore Chris Portland.
Myron Rolle was one and I looked at today Rhodes scholar and stay on the gators.
Lol whatever I had.
You know what's ox Thursday.
With a crack but it's used out of the candles while I have I have.
All these guys either had a very short apple career walked away you know it's not worth.
Born in in the case several teachers like you know what on these study these things like basic Indian nearer surged one day.
And in obviously easily can it if he was drafted yet but this.
What does that mean for the fans for fell four.
And the setting a trend and and in the taking the others equally blame does that kind of raise awareness.
About.
Raise awareness of it so when you have players like that Hussein.
I'm not leave well currently.
Roberts to other careers in particular to do research to study on.
Only heighten awareness.
I'm shot David and and is that in this scene native technology that we had that war has been done to create more advanced helmets systems and that's protect players.
I find that very shocking I'm curious what.
It does position is more resistant down my take is it baby into tumor research and UREDE.
It made even more that mission that there is issue a problem with individuals like being cots.
I don't think that the divisions.
Planes were just yet because.
It is for some people great way to make money right so when you're that young agent part one high school.
Several of their lives and dosage which every talking about from the class right and sometimes the way out.
Is sports the way out is entertainment to be an actor to be NC eager to be a reformer that's the way of making it.
Where others can see education as option and that's how they can opt out and it now.
We're so of his road scholar where sound educated main priorities I think that's where the rubber meets the road.
And that's what we have to go conversation as Americans with the values on it what when basics were rocketing and NCAA athletes be paid because.
That's radicals and stolen credit an underdog of August I had been both of legal system opting out at play and about opting in for financial gain from long urged.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Learn to cook healthier with sugar alternatives

And they went on moment yet now we're here today with Whitney call Biron taking me thinking that so much for joining that they are personal trainers fitness expert in marina Delray.
And back healthy living here is out and this summer officially the last day.
I'm now but we're going to be talking stood there and have a great at the building into the awful late I think it'll way.
I think.
I guess we're going right there have to be famous moment.
Isn't about he let's talk a little bit upset that you want to avoid profit should.
That's meaningful to you regularly certainly.
We try to quit but that shouldn't much as we can.
Perhaps there and it it did happen but we were just talking about something evil type trouble.
Certainly about a hundred years ago before we have all this process food at the bulk of our.
And think about his cooking a home cooked meal every single meal breakfast went to dinner that have been happening more fun being here to go before had a lot of processed food.
People are getting only about fifteen grams of sugar a day.
From their efforts from their vegetables.
Then ended ended ended ended up our bar has been raised for what we take this week so they started putting its only other things along with a lot of filler since that the we keeper hate.
Moore fitted them with five more absolutely Smart manufactures could not healthy but.
Mark from their perspective yet and now we're getting about a hundred in eleven.
Saturday.
Sugar lifting that increased its in the products we find this yet.
There yet but Burton's Alice doesn't really taste sweets as much as they should I mean they are meeting a huge amount of him but wow look at that sweep the average salad dressings but.
But heat when he and the Fed minutes which is to table pretty certain.
Though it's important to look at here ingredient than he but put in your thing it's just Cynthia McKinney a year in taking.
And now looking wanted to avoid processed sugar which he both dale so let's don't have been different alternatives that would keep it.
Well my number one of them is going to be the and you actually can't get it again and organic pure form.
So often you know where you from the other ones and I really wanna try that Mumford Esther but I can't find it in care reform it's always drew mixed with.
Not pedestrian or something else to make it measures people for simple.
Com here's another women to steal this from a neighbor not that this actually fit in my house but this is trivia similar to appear via again they're going with the whole name.
Yes it's with the sound like Steve via though they're trying to get on that bandwagon however.
The college the first ingredient.
It's not eating breeding and still been in different alternative look at your ingredients look at your label like where it has value nutrition facts and stuff.
The two of them to be used in combination.
In order to fully get the full picture but consider continue to look at the nutrition label you know looking and very if not.
Calories fat sugar things like that but it it doesn't give you the full.
Respect.
Fortunate speed it doesn't work in a lot of cooking processes doesn't do that low heat so what Whitney exit development using sites as a sweetener.
And I think she's gonna tell you have to use a fifty.
But getting that.
So wet and making that it.
This thank you chocolate pumpkin square so.
Anything we can have around the house and it's a lot less sugary a lot less impact on our round when her lecture and now.
That can help us with a little bit Creighton that acknowledgment that this week.
I'm satisfied.
And we go wrong with her at.
So in that of whites sugar we're going to be using.
A combination of Stevie in state.
I'm a big fan these commitments devious I can't.
Reports are hitting that bitter we want people that Wikipedia it's yet he.
And short if you we're trying to meet up with coffee and put in a teaspoon Stevie which.
This being about date it varies depending on what's that you're looking at if 500 or is it a hundred times more strong and ship.
More sweet than sugar.
All of your sugar alcohol and the better always could be stronger so if you look at for the T think about it holy.
And again.
Here is situated that way.
He kind eighty been.
And we can use that to measure like what would be something you and this is we like these without anything to get pop.
Is that the my husband is talking about.
And did 402.
What we had a this take care and we've made such but he just taking some.
But the dice.
None of them landa with a hot what do where what are softened.
What that Iraq community to sweeten the majority of the mountains.
Are there recommend that you he's business from populated forget that moment on a field here and the great thing about this if this isn't it odd statement no more book that.
Who but I don't know until there's gonna be unanimous leader.
I think are there much bigger imitator and.
Columbus fiber whereas if I defeat.
There's more fiber it actually decreases the option that's going to be in your food.
Plus it's gotta love it would be if things that you fifteen something like deviant which is some movement concentrated.
And you know it's simple for people you're going to have to really adjust your recipe.
To work with it you know there's that much less believe it for this season's media this helps us to work with that.
Fault that balance fiber health and I like that notified that if acutely yes that is really what he's great for brown he's great bars.
While it yet but give it.
Person on on fifteen thing necessarily if it didn't bark at me but I do recommended what we're.
Free flour.
Or what we're working with.
Britain potter with Morgan.
They needed spicy chocolate something.
I put it about two thirds cup of flour and near.
You have the gluten free falling it is Winfrey I am borderline silly act I go that route.
It's not the best thing for everybody but.
We'll hope that effective purple mothers can't and that.
Act and then I'm gonna put in about a half cup here.
Breaking pattern that what happened before warrior Keene.
And I we'll find that the combination of the different things got he potent cranberry approaching.
Hence see protein if you think that combination is a little bit better it's less aggressively sweet as well as some of the other people that they.
We can patent on that without him here to.
Again we'll hear.
And wait for it he definitely stand up to thinking as well it's hot and it's getting it's gonna work some time that can get robbery and that's where we went they would wait.
This that there.
Oppenheim big into the disease affects injured written fat.
They're trying to not have too much wet stuff in here I'm trying to.
Almost DP did not flower and he used animal and decreasing the amount of sugar than any.
But he needs some body when I put more spices and things much like spicy or that the people or something.
Savory they've treated lots of earth left displacement step.
Com need less sugar I need less salt.
Knowing the different balance that if you like you got that played around a lot to get about the perfect recipe it.
We do it.
Taking what our clients craving what they want to eat.
And finding ways to make it helped it take sugar out of that it's been like take back out for that this event like this so that they can still feel.
They're enjoying their food.
By the same time.
It's not going to be attacked them.
So I'm going in with tables and a half future.
Again I'd I think I think.
The Achilles injury but again we're trying to avoid a little bit of extra.
Witness.
It would happen if we just but you know teaching them this about this and not make me about it he stated that.
I'm going to use a little bit of clothes folly about a quarter after you've known that.
Management.
You know all of it and it leveling a little chart that you heat for our educated.
Yeah yeah.
Works.
With the planet beach about certain that he in my cabinet devious they're cute is easy.
Any additional effects that obviously cinnamon got to go in there but look at how dark brown that is I don't want that beautiful pumpkin color.
To get taken over ground so we want to maintain that Lott until they add more like a tablespoon of some large large amount.
You are pumpkin pie spice we're gonna play that the last thing and that in here and this is one of those things that.
Not create easy spice Leverett yet I worked my butt.
Is kind.
NN movement really gonna put that in there I've about that yeah yeah okay.
Again the more.
Kick you have a stars like he and 85% dark top and on top of it.
Then you won't ship here because your body that she compares it to the spicy or the bitter and for the month.
So I put in about a court he's been there.
I like it Lacey hair and he had the right to Chad me.
I think.
Ahead and fifth this.
Again even normally fifteenth.
And mature making it take you to one of hearing us but again we're working with gluten free flour and with protein powder.
This kind of almost makes it a little bit more areas like.
Avoiding that vent sometimes a lot of people complained.
Do you think nineteen how to act and ended up gloomy or robbery or it had separated and I had a nice player on the top and then the bottom what's really that can be.
This is what I would recommend making it very fine exactly.
And again when anything's doesn't have to be inherited from your grandmother that septa.
I'd found a plant dollars to permanently.
The dollar.
And look that good job.
That there and we are put aside our Brian we actually.
Every my blender on my mixer here.
We certainly something like that this is pretty simple and straightforward.
However.
I don't totally recommended.
You see this work when I anything they'll be in college with about this much counter space and new equipment I think in making these human blender.
Or and I'll be civil do this but I did.
Yes and I like I like that.
Picking up the paint the equipment now that they can certainly use the blender and it certainly is not a big profits.
Eight Philip lender would work to put at town would.
Cookies and bars she read stuff brownie you're fine with this evening standard.
Standard and blender blend them.
And happy look on our blog we ought to have a great recipe for ground.
Faith movement upward baby one of the few were right on that.
Point where fall at about but never got DSL this time but.
And a lot okay but did not heart and I'm giving up looking a lot.
On your thoughts he technique that many about the need but altering its profit shattered self pity every.
Near one of them yeah literally our clients want.
They wouldn't this week they want to stay on their diet and that.
And a lot of it experimentation that is.
The cool the hearing that had been fitness experts for any number of years now.
It's simple to the I did not as we consider anywhere in the house that except the bathroom these initiatives.
The 00 yeah.
Big bags under my cap and and fired on every time there's been torn by.
Both men and women who you can now about senator that you think you.
When rock that.
And it doesn't mean you're in my fault.
I took the idea for some.
The cousins said.
Then he would definitely make ended up I love it.
What happened here was that can of organic pumpkin you could certainly make your own press something to do it in the Evan get one these pie pumpkin sugar pie pumpkins.
But here at just the fifteen ounce can we're getting something from.
It and some of our day period we have time I'll show you how I mean that.
A recipe again on our blog.
About a couple happen because he easily read he used in the fridge says it.
When you're ready to cook begin quickly wouldn't have to take all day.
That's what's.
Anyway so that it can get one in there and that often.
Oil and yet we think Clinton this.
Ultimately.
I am going to put in about a quarter cup this is gone but not oil.
Yeah its global warming here then 75 thing is nothing.
Again something as.
It's not a temperamental recipe you.
Still a big battle.
The Sun Bowl.
And in the fifth now okay.
It's better than I thought it would be.
And like bad.
And it probably should've put this in with our hot dry ingredients.
Different but they go ahead but it is now back completely forgot to put in Expedia.
Our star here.
That you and the next half but he did go up to fifty well.
That going in.
And I don't have to be weird about town and then he really easy recipes.
But not to decide.
And a minute.
We got wonderful editing them and put to segue.
Again can we get an expensive organic unit.
Available it added it's at a reasonable price but only have cost across the street.
When they're going to matter I don't need another fifteen TV that we need to hear it particular look at.
Whom think they don't eat organic ingredients.
I had my mind away.
We actually get a majority of things that.
What is the price on their eggs in it 24 peachtree.
Brown organic eggs.
That in.
And keeping your eyes open my every avenue in looking at the ingredients reading the label thing informed nearly what works for your body as well.
The great thing.
Cost go to your biggest retailer of groceries and a number of other than it actually listening to what people want people want to eat healthier.
And they show it and they should have acted it good clean healthy fit.
That it.
A little limited on time.
Oakland at.
Thank you got thought I had actually been hidden aid and Beattie we get that they look like.
What the finished product but but that he.
I would normally think about half of but since we're short on time.
Hold on okay that's accompanied her to originally nick that infection.
As having I think flies up one and then the man.
So high I really.
It definitely comes here.
And it looked me straight LA.
He won't.
I think I have a peek at what they're gonna look play.
Yeah and gas that you just gonna mix this around and feel pretty early next.
And I think that's about and have it that we meaning something color.
Yeah and we want it to me integrity of the color.
They Warren's company Perry whom you if you well.
So that's what we're going for Wachovia pop in.
They often pay a line that train together and what temperature and they fit in the baker out you can afford fascinating point.
At 350 bad that today 99 parade eight by eight.
By the gone new land through its I felt that any on the longer and that things whereas I usually use a night by not.
You know it with his equipment here.
Those who played a great thing about and that parchment paper needed I didn't have to use marvel.
Now and I can just profit and is well.
And again we weren't concerned about the in fact we often don't get little rubbery rough edges but it them so often I mean he would be something any points.
From the side and I'm Christy you robbery.
Now dead and at that.
It won't have that need and can now.
We'll look at me now.
Environments fantastic.
And it made what the whole.
You know here I totally get the idea I think that you're hanging in a good thing.
What we're left with not.
That other.
Though a bit of what on top tier I just melted down a couple of squares of really dark chocolate it.
NN 85% dark chocolate.
Give yourself a little cases and it's it's a good test on on the phone if this if you haven't abided.
If this doesn't taste like chocolate it doesn't taste sweet enough.
That's a really good indicated that you were caught taking way too much we more than me.
Go lowered.
And Bob the tough thing about anywhere and you how good tech expert ballot that thing at a given enough time to go into that what.
That bite people could make me feel healthy alternative cooking heat dessert yeah great head effort out.
With hundreds of what we like to do is obviously that classic ratio is three parts wealth one pot assets we actually flipped that going.
One bottle to three pots that sit and that we memo that out by using some kind Sweetney either again that they can array or Expedia and some fresh to kind of get that Bennett out and then to blend it with one of those handling the stick Glenda so they must vacation price actually makes it feel more weighty than it actually has.
I like bat.
There hasn't been so great that I think he's so much for sharing your kids in the grip on alternative ideas to profits checkered life of being heated at EB news.
And thinking I think he ever run for watching her healthy living unity good eaten me up compromise will have an article on it.
And yeah.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Robin Roberts' transplant anniversary inspires Be the Match registrations

A lot of fun.
Happy Friday, happy first day of fall.
Great to have David with us here on a Friday morning.
Great to be here and deliver the exciting announcement.
I always said you look adorable for 5 years old.
Healthier and wider than any 5-year-old I ever met.
I was watching and not a dry eye from where I was watching either.
So proud of you.
Thank you.
Weren't any dry eyes here in the studio as well.
You know, you inspired so many people to register, be the match.com.
You broke a record.
Almost 2400 people signed up online in just one day and we're going to put that in perspective because I don't think you realize.
It usually takes a recruiter to make that happen.
You got it done in one day.
I didn't.
We got it done.
Thank you, thank you very much.
But that is so vital because it can lead to a potential cure for mds and sickle cell anemia.
So many different illnesses.
Think of A.J.
That morning and when he met the person that saved his life.
She's getting married this weekend.
They'll all be there.
A top story we want to tell

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for At-home tests claim to analyze your genes to determine the best diet for you

We are turning now to our home consumer lab.
This morning we'll break down a new health trend using your genes to determine your diet?
ABC's Becky Worley has that story.
Reporter: What's it feel like to lose weight on weight watchers?
Dieting, lose 20 pounds for $20.
Hundreds of plans.
I tried everything.
I had the low carb eating.
I had the green juicing, smoothie, cleanses.
Reporter: For this woman none seemed right for her.
I felt I was in a war with food.
Reporter: She turned to habit, an at home test that promises a personalized nutrition plan but doesn't promise weight loss.
I wanted to find a way to eat that was sustainable, that was healthy.
Reporter: It has a few elms, swab your cheek, measure your waist and submit a few blood samples and analyze DNA, metabolism and biomarkers they say impact your body's ability to process food.
Then they create a personalized profile to help eaters make healthy choices.
Based on the results test takers are assigned to one of seven different profiles like protein seeker, fat seeker and a profile for people who need to slow their me tab limps.
She was assigned a grain lover's dream.
I was a rank seeker which meant that I can have up to 50 to 60% of my calories from carbs.
Was that good news?
Do you love carbs?
I love carbs.
Yeah, I love carbs.
Reporter: The company says while weight loss isn't promised it's possible.
They say weight loss with habit is designed for no more than half a pound to two pounds a week.
After eight weeks she hasn't lost weight but inches.
I'm more energized and active.
My clothes are starting to fit differently on me.
Reporter: Other at home testing services offer personalized diets based on your DNA like this from orig3n and this from dnafit that runs 199.
Habit is more expensive and includes a metabolic test and access to their app and phone-based coaching and costs $309 and isn't covered by most insurance plans.
But it's still early days.
While studies are ongoing so far little evidence that profiling your DNA by itself leads to significant weight loss or healthier outcomes.
Mine is protein seeker.
Reporter: The founder of habit says his company's program is worth it.
Six months later I lost 25 pounds and felt better than I had felt in years.
Reporter: He tested positive for the obesity gene and has to really watch his fat intake.
How does this differ from going to see a nutritionist?
Depending you may get more of a standard or generic recommendation but based on your DNA, blood work and metabolism.
More refined and very specific recommendation.
Reporter: For "Good morning America," Becky Worley, Oakland, California.
That's really good.
Dr. Jennifer Ashton is back.
Yes, high dear.
Watching that piece with you, you have a degree in nutrition.
Tell us what you think of these dn.
A-based diets.
The evidence is not there yet.
These studies need much better methodology.
They're in their early stages of investigation and little evidence to support it and according to the academy of nutrition and dietetics newt tree genetic dietary based practices are not recommended.
What about those people in the piece who say they felt they had success -- Placebo works 30% of the time.
In general if you focus on food, good things are going to happen and people like a personalized, individualized approach to their eating and that really speaks to it.
This is just an example as a nutritionist as a physician of the types of food I recommend in a day.
If you eat like this, you will feel and look good.
And drink lots of water we learned from Tom Brady.
Exactly, that's right.
Dr. Jen.
I'll drink to that.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Aaron Hernandez's family suing NFL, Patriots

with that major headline about Aaron Hernandez.
A lawyer for the late NFL player and convicted murderer now says researchers found what they called the most severe case of cte they had ever seen in someone his age.
ABC's linsey Davis is here with the story this morning.
Good morning, linsey.
On the heels of that the family filed a $20 million lawsuit to compensate his 4-year-old daughter for the loss of her father.
The allegation is that both the NFL and the patriots not only knew but hid the dangers of the sport.
That was complete.
This is Hernandez.
Reporter: Doctors now say former NFL superstar Aaron Hernandez suffered from chronic traumatic encephalopathy, commonly known as cte.
Not only were the results positive but we're told that it was the most severe case they had ever seen in someone -- for someone of Aaron's age.
Reporter: Doctors at the Boston university cte center examined Hernandez's brain concluding that the former new England patriots tight end was suffering from an advanced form of the brain disease, stage 3 out of 4.
These results come five months after the 27-year-old committed suicide in prison while serving a life sentence for the 2013 murder of his friend Odin Lloyd.
Guilty of murder in the first degree.
Reporter: Now his family is taking aim at the NFL and his former team, the new England patriots, saying in a lawsuit, defendants were fully aware of the dangers of exposing NFL players such as Mr. Hernandez to repeated traumatic head impacts and blaming them for his death.
Claiming depression, uncontrollable aggression and suicidal impulses are recognized to symptoms of late stage cte.
They finalized a $1 billion class action by former players who claim they suffered traumatic brain injuries during their career.
No comment just yet from the NFL or the patriots.
Hernandez was just 27 years old.
Yet, researchers say the damage he sustained was similar to that of players in their 60s.
The lawyer says the family is also considering a lawsuit against the NCAA and his college team, the university of Florida.
David.
All right, linsey, our thanks to you.
I want to bring in Dr. Jennifer Ashton and, Jen, we have been talking about this and known videotape is an issue for so long.
When you heard doctors say this is the most severe case in someone this age ever, what does it tell you.
Cte, neurodegenerative brain disorder caused by repeated head trauma causing symptoms of memory loss, aggression, depression, in some cases suicidal behavior.
We can only diagnose this on autopsy.
Now, there is no screening test yet for this.
Just recently big study in Jama out in July found evidence of cte in 99% of deceased NFL players' brains.
Now there could be biased involved because those players may have been having estimate symptoms and donated their brains for study or other terps involved in terms of the pathology.
In the meantime, it's Friday morning.
"Friday night lights" and so many going to the games to watch their kids play and see stories and wonder about the risks.
It's scary and concerning but you can't remove all risks.
There are other sports.
This is not just football that has a risk of head trauma.
Recent study show children who play contact football before the age of 12 have three times higher risk of symptoms and depression.
We need to understand how to prevent it, screen it and treat it.
You know your kids best so watch the warning signs.
Over to you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Cheat days may help dieters lose weight, research finds

We turn now to our "Gma" health alert.
New research breaking down cheat days and whether they help or they hurt your diet.
If turns out they could be the key to helping you lose that weight.
Pizza, candy, junk food galore.
Cheat days are the indulgent break from the chore of dieting and frequently shared all over social media.
Jen aniston goes for Mexican fare.
Hugh Jackman reaches for timtam cookies and the rock banana chip pancakes.
It may improve weight loss long term and scientists found people who dieted for two weeks then paused for two weeks lost more weight and fat than people who dieted continuously.
Why would indulging help you diet?
It's the diet catch 22.
To lose weight you need to eat less.
But then your body responds by burning fewer calories.
It's a protective measure that goes back to caveman days to conserve energy when you don't have enough to eat so diet cheaters rejoice.
Breaking your diet may convince your body it's not starving so you can have your cake and eat it too.
Our senior medical contribute Dr. Jennifer Ashton is here now.
So tell us what your thoughts are on this study.
The cheat days are actually helpful.
Okay, couple of caveats.
This particular study very small numbers.
We need to study it more with more people and even the group that had those reset periods of time had their calories restricted to the new lower amount of body weight so, again, it needs more research but let me show you what the theory of this diet approach is.
We have two audience members.
Alessandra will represent the person who gets a reset day so if you think of those bags like the number of the days of the month as she picks them up.
Go ahead.
Let's say she's doing six days on, one day of reset.
When she gets through day six you can eat the whole plate of jelly beans.
That doesn't do damage to your diet.
It could potentially but Jeremy who will do this indefinitely.
You can see it gets harder and harder to pick up the bags if there is no reset or cheat period.
By the end of six day, 14 day, 30 days, he's physically, psychologically and metabolically getting -- Your body can adjusting to the fewer calories, correct?
Look, your body is a very smart machine and it adapts both in ray metabolic standpoint.
Keep going, Jeremy.
So if you are going to cheat, I mean are there downsides and I would imagine eating all of that would derail your diet.
It obviously potentially could when you reset you eat very poorly.
You could undo all of the good that you've done and, again, making new habits is about making things -- you're doing great, Jeremy.
Making things a habit.
I always tell people my prescription for weight loss or sustaining a new weight is simple.
For anything to work it has to be safe, it has to be simple and it has to be sustainable because any diet approach could work in the short term.
That's not going to work.
All right, Jeremy.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Boy, 8, meets the bone marrow donor who saved his life, live on 'GMA'

ifou look at those dunes, they say six to eight feet of sand have fallen off the top of the dunes.
We are trying to find out more information about that, and we will bring you a live report at noon.
Live in sandwich, Josh brogadir, WCVB newscenter 5.
Antoinette: Thank you.
We will stay on track of time.
So 70% of the time people need a bone marrow transplant, they weren't fortunate to have someone in my family like I was blessed to have woman right here and that's where be the match comes in and one of the many people it helped was a young boy named A.J.
And we want to share his story with you.
He was a really healthy boy.
All of a sudden in the middle of the night he woke up with leg pain and the following day the leg pain was so excruciating that we had to take him to the E.R.
Reporter: In the hospital on his fourth birthday in January 2013 A.J.
And his family received a life-changing diagnosis.
We found out that it was actually leukemia.
So we knew that we needed to get to Walter reed as fast as possible.
Reporter: Living overseas while dad Jeff served in the military, A.J.
And his family immediately flew back to the states for treatment.
Was so sick, the treatment was so intense.
Alexa and I were shifting each other out at the hospital.
Eventually he did reach remission.
Reporter: Unfortunately in the summer of 2015 A.J.
Relapsed.
It was another setback.
It came back in two locations so that's a clear indication that the treatment wasn't working.
Reporter: At that point we knew that a transplant was really his only option.
The first step was for all of us to be tested.
And none of us were a match.
Reporter: The family turned to be the match, an organization that helps patients find their life-saving donors.
And thankfully they found A.J.
A match.
A 22-year-old woman, that's all the family knew at the time.
Meanwhile, A.J.
Kept on fighting.
Felt like a very long road leading up to his transplant day.
He went through a lot of heavy-duty chemotherapy.
Reporter: Throughout the difficult process like a typical kid A.J.
Found small moments of joy in his toys and even dancing.
Reporter: For a.j.
's mom it was a glimmer of hope she needed.
Writing to her son's donor.
So I'm thinking of you as you head to the hospital today for your procedure and I thank you from the very depths of my heart for what you've done for my little boy.
Reporter: After 270 days in the hospital, the best news of all, the transplant worked.
Was cancer-free.
Happy birthday to you ???
Reporter: After 2 1/2 years, 8-year-old A.J.
Is back in school.
And now one more stop on his journey, meeting his donor for the first time face-to-face.
Saying thank you never really feels like enough when someone saves your child's life.
Alexa, his dad Jeff.
Michael and I are so thrilled to have you with us.
I got to tell you, how is it going, A.J.?
What do you like to do?
I don't know.
Most of the time I like to build legos.
Legos, perfect.
We got a new movie coming out.
We got some legos backstage for you.
How is he doing.
Is doing well.
Going back to school and playing with his friends and, yeah, he's doing well.
Alexa, A.J.
Is 8 years old now and he's thriving so what does that mean to you to see him thrive in the way he is.
Oh, you know, it's -- well, I just feel so much joy after a lot of dark days and it's so nice to see him running again and playing with his friends and going to school for a full day and seeing him smile again and talk.
I know it had to be difficult when looking to the family and there was not a match and everybody always thinks it will be an automatic.
You got a family members, it'll be the case but it's not and then to find that there was one on be the match.
I remember I think my heart sank the day that none of us were a match but a lot of people were praying and fortunately we didn't have to wait very long.
It was maybe two weeks afterwards we found out that A.J.
Had a potential match.
And what went through your head when you found out you did find a match?
Relief.
Relief.
Well, you know, a.j.
's match is here.
You know, you've never met in person.
You talked on the phone but you haven't met in person.
We talked on the phone.
Sent text messages back and forth.
But we have not met her.
So -- Are you ready to meet her?
Want to meet her.
Very ready.
My heart is pounding.
I don't know if I can take this.
Get up.
Everybody, give a round of applause to a.j.
's match, Alex.
Come on out, Alex.
Good to see you, Alex.
Come on over.
Good to see you.
Oh, wow.
This edition of "Good morning America" brought to you by Kleenex.
Alex needs some herself.
Look at -- something you want to say to her.
Thanks for saving my life.
It was my pleasure.
What's it like to see each other face-to-face for the first time after all this.
It's overwhelming.
Of O we've thought a lot about meeting you and getting to know you more.
We're so excited and so thankful.
So beautiful, Alexa, something you want to say.
You know, just Alex is already a part of our family and I really look forward to just sharing life with her and, you know, I've been doing that so far sending her messages and pictures of A.J.
And every time he meets a milestone I'm excited to share it with her.
Did you ever think when you signed up that you'd end up with a family and a new friends and all of these things?
No, I thought I would be lucky if I ever met my recipient but I was prepared for the fact that I might not ever know and I had to come to terps with that but it is surreal to me.
Why did you want to be a donor?
Because it's the right thing to do.
And it's so beautiful, I know that without even meeting him, you wrote a letter.
I did.
Can you read a portion of it.
This boy may be somebody's -- may someday be someone's husband, someone's father, grandfather, son-in-law, maybe he will take the world by storm and find the cure for cancer or maybe he won't.
The point is he is important.
The point is he's important.
You know, I've been overwhelmed by this moment and everybody that's here.
We'll get to know more and more people and so grateful my sister was my donor.
But a total stranger doing this.
A total stranger and that's what we -- you've got the best smile.
Can I just say that?
The cutele little freckles.
In the world.
What is your message to people, pecially young people thinking because you guys are the sweet spot, aren't they?
I mean the college -- my college campus did a swabin' for robin, a bone marrow drive because you all are really -- thank you for that.
What is your message to someone.
My message is don't be afraid to donate.
Don't be afraid to join.
You never are going to regret saving someone.
There's nothing bad that can come out of donating.
It's all positives.
I tell you, I'm looking at A.J.
He's just staring at you.
He's so happy.
He's so happy and there's a big congratulations for you too, Alex.
Somebody is getting married, everybody.
This weekend.
In three days.
So you hav@ some people who may be sitting here with us who are going to the wedding.
I'm very excited.
Wonderful.
Extension of family.
Extension of family.
Thank you all so much.
I know it's not easy to share when you're going through something like this but it's so important to give hope to people and as I said earlier it's a privilege to be a messenger and I feel that we are.
We are wrae delivering a message of hope and resilience and knowing that you just keep moving.
You keep believing and we are all here today assembled and this too shall pass so thank you all very much.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Congress is at a crossroads after Republicans' stinging failure to repeal Barack Obama's health care law.
But what's next  more partisan conflict or a pragmatic shift toward cooperation?
Unless Republicans and Democrats in Congress can work together, and bring along an often unpredictable President Donald Trump, political conflict over health care may spread.
Bipartisan talks on legislation to stabilize shaky insurance markets are on again, but time is short and there's no guarantee of success.
Congress also has yet to renew funding for programs that traditionally enjoy broad support, such as children's health insurance and community health centers, despite approaching deadlines.
Feelings were raw Tuesday after Senate GOP leaders announced they would not take their latest "repeal and replace" bill to the floor for lack of support.
Some lawmakers said it's still possible to bridge the partisan gap on a limited set of priority issues.
Sen. Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn., said he would resume efforts to reach a bipartisan deal with Sen. Patty Murray, D-Wash., to stabilize markets for individual insurance policies that 18 million people rely on.
More than half of those consumers are covered under the health law.
Alexander is chairman of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee; Murray is the top Democrat on the committee.
Alexander runs the risk of being accused by some fellow Republicans of trying to "bail out Obamacare."
Murray is under pressure from fellow Democrats not to make concessions to Alexander, who is seeking changes that would make it easier for states to get waivers from some of the law's requirements, potentially leading to plans with lower premiums.
"I'm still concerned about the next two years, and Congress has an opportunity to slow down premium increases in 2018, begin to lower them in 2019, and do our best to make sure there are no counties where people have zero options to buy health insurance," Alexander said in a statement.
Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., who has worked with Republicans on a range of health care issues, said cooperation is the only way to avoid creating needless problems for constituents.
"You recognize the opportunities that are in front of you," said Wyden, the top Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, which oversees health care funding.
"My hope is we can come together."
Wyden's list includes renewing the Children's Health Insurance Program for 9 million kids, whose funding expires this week, as well as short-term action to stabilize the Affordable Care Act's insurance markets, by guaranteeing subsidies for copayments and deductibles.
Experts say that could cut expected double-digit premium increases in many states by about half.
The missing ingredient seems to be leadership, say outside observers.
Neither Trump, nor House Speaker Paul Ryan nor Senate Majority Leader Mitch Connell has given clear approval for a bipartisan approach.
Some governors have called for a health care reset that would involve both parties working together on a limited agenda, but their suggestion hasn't been embraced in Washington.
"The question is whether you can you forge a coalition that doesn't include either the hard right or the hard left," said GOP health economist Gail Wilensky.
"I have not been able to answer who would provide the leadership for such an effort.
Neither the leadership in the House or the Senate has embraced the notion of trying to forge a bipartisan coalition, and it is very hard to move legislation without that."
Rep. Richard Neal, D-Mass., said Trump at a meeting with lawmakers raised the possibility of seeking a deal with Democrats.
There's no hint what that might entail.
If anything, Democrats have been moving to the left after Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., relaunched his "Medicare for all" plan recently.
Under Sanders' plan, government would pay for medical services, replacing employers and insurers.
Some liberal activists argue that support for "single-payer" should be a qualifying test for Democratic candidates in 2018 and beyond.
Other Democrats say single-payer would lead to political defeat, because of the massive tax increases required.
"It's not going to happen," said former Rep. Henry Waxman, D-Calif., one of the main authors of the Obama law.
"You can talk about it, and plant a flag, and say that's where you'd like to go, but in the meantime people need their insurance coverage."
Wednesday is the deadline for insurers to sign contracts to offer policies for 2018 on the health law's markets.
Sign-up season starts Nov. 1.
About half the 18 million Americans with individual policies get no subsidies under the health law.
Without congressional action some are facing premiums that rival a mortgage payment.
Saturday is the deadline for Congress to act on children's health insurance and community health center funding.
Brief delays are not expected to cause disruptions, but a protracted holdup would.
Online:

Senate committee: https://www.help.senate.gov/
The Latest on the Republican effort to overhaul the Obama health law (all times local):

7 p.m.

Senate Republicans have conceded defeat on their last-ditch effort to repeal and replace "Obamacare."
The bill's authors acknowledge they don't have the votes ahead of a critical deadline at the end of this week.
President Donald Trump is slamming 'certain so-called Republicans' and Majority Leader Mitch McConnell says the focus will now turn to tax reform.
Sen. Lindsey Graham, a sponsor of the latest, last-ditch effort, says Republicans are going to fulfill the promise they've made to voters and the GOP base for the past seven years.
2:39 p.m.

Senate Republicans are insisting they won't give up on repealing and replacing the Obama health care law even as they abandoned plans for a vote this week.
Majority Leader Mitch McConnell told reporters after a closed-door luncheon in which the GOP decided not to hold the vote: "We haven't given up on changing the American health care system.
We aren't going to be able to do it this week."
Sen. Lindsey Graham, a sponsor of the latest, last-ditch effort, said Republicans are going to fulfill the promise they've made to voters and the GOP base for the past seven years.
But it was clear that the GOP is moving on to the next complicated legislative priority.
McConnell said: "Where we go from here is tax reform."
2:05 p.m.

Senate Republicans will not vote this week on the latest, last-ditch effort to repeal and replace Barack Obama's Affordable Care Act.
That's the word from senators as they emerged from a closed-door meeting on Tuesday.
Sen. Jeff Flake of Arizona shook his head and said "no" when asked about plans for a vote.
The setback marks the end for the latest drive to overturn the law, a promise the GOP has made to voters for seven years.
The latest iteration of the bill was sponsored by Sens.
Bill Cassidy and Lindsey Graham, but opposition from at least three Republican senators in the narrowly-divided Senate sunk the measure's chances.
Democrats were unified in their opposition.
11:52 a.m.

A new analysis finds that 34 states and Washington, D.C., would lose money under the newest version of the Republican health care bill.
This is despite last-minute changes to the legislation.
Overall, states would get $205 billion less in federal health care money from 2020-2026, according to the analysis from consulting firm Avalere Health, which was released Tuesday.
States that expanded Medicaid to cover low-income adults, as well as those where lots of residents have signed up for subsidized private health insurance, were more likely to be losers under the Graham-Cassidy bill.
The latest changes soften the magnitude of the funding shifts, but the end result remains similar.
Half the 30 states President Donald Trump won last year would lose money.
Losses would grow over time.
Sixteen states would gain money.
11 a.m.

President Donald Trump says he's "disappointed in certain so-called Republicans" who have opposed the latest GOP attempt to repeal former President Barack Obama's health care overhaul.
Trump tells reporters at the White House that "we'll see what happens" on whether the Senate will vote on the plan, which has suffered from Republican defections.
Trump says he's "very disappointed by a couple of senators," adding, "We don't know why they did it."
The president says "at some point there will be a repeal and replace" of the health care law.
But Republican leaders in the Senate are conceding that their prospects for repealing the law are dismal.
10:40 a.m.

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell says the partisan debate over the country's health care system will "certainly continue."
The Kentucky Republican spoke as he tries to decide whether to hold a vote on the latest GOP bill repealing President Barack Obama's law.
That measure seems almost certain to be defeated if a roll call were held.
The Republican legislation would transform much "Obamacare" spending into grants states could spend on health programs with few constraints.
McConnell called that proposal a "stark contrast" to a plan by Vermont independent Sen. Bernie Sanders.
That measure is backed by many Democrats and would create government-run health insurance.
McConnell says Sanders' plan would "rip" health insurance from people.
He called the issue an important debate and said, "It's one that we'll certainly continue."
9:35 a.m.
The White House says it believes a Senate health care bill that appears headed for defeat is "still good legislation."
Spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders says the White House is "fully committed" to improving the health care system and that the Senate bill would do that.
With no Democratic support expected, three "no" votes from Republicans would appear to doom the bill.
Republicans control 52 Senate seats and Sens.
Susan Collins of Maine, John McCain of Arizona and Rand Paul of Kentucky have said they will not vote for the bill.
Sanders held out hope that opposing lawmakers might change their minds, or that undecided senators  like Lisa Murkowski of Alaska  will support it.
Senate Republican leaders have conceded that prospects for passing the measure this week appear dismal.
3:43 a.m.

Republican Sen. Susan Collins' decision to oppose the GOP push to repeal President Barack Obama's health care overhaul leaves the effort all but dead.
Even party leaders concede that their prospects are dismal.
South Dakota Sen. John Thune, the No.
3 GOP Senate leader, says reviving the push would be a heavy lift.
Thune made the comment after Collins joined a small but pivotal cluster of Republicans saying they're against the measure.
GOP Sens.
John McCain of Arizona, Rand Paul of Kentucky and Ted Cruz of Texas are also against the legislation, though Cruz aides say he might back it if changes are made.
Alaska's Lisa Murkowski is a Republican who's undecided.
With their narrow Senate majority, defections by three GOP senators would doom the bill.
A hospital patient who a Utah nurse said she was protecting when she refused to allow police to draw his blood has died.
William Gray, a commercial truck driver and reserve police officer, died late Monday of the injuries he suffered when a fiery July 26 crash left him with burns over nearly half his body, University of Utah Health spokeswoman Suzanne Winchester said.
Gray was unconscious at the Salt Lake City hospital when police detective Jeff Payne asked to draw his blood hours after the crash.
Nurse Alex Wubbels refused because hospital policy required a warrant or patient consent.
Payne handcuffed her and dragged her outside.
Gray was hauling a load of sand in northern Utah when a pickup truck speeding away from police crossed the center line and hit his truck head-on, causing an explosion.
State police had been trying to pull over the pickup driver after several people called 911 to report he was driving recklessly.
Gray was not suspected of wrongdoing,

The pickup driver, Marcos Torres, 26, died in the crash, and Utah police routinely collect such evidence from everyone involved in fatal crashes.
Dramatic video of Wubbels' arrest caught widespread attention online amid national scrutiny of police use of force.
Payne and the supervisor who backed him, Lt. James Tracy, were placed on leave amid internal and criminal investigations.
Salt Lake City police apologized and Chief Mike Brown is now considering possible discipline.
The officers' union has said Payne and Tracy have unfairly been made into pariahs.
Salt Lake Police Association president Stephen Hartney stopped short of defending Payne at a Tuesday news conference, but he lauded the detective's nearly three-decades as an officer.
Asked to assess how Payne handcuffed and dragged Wubbels out of the hospital, Hartney said: "Any resisting of arrest is embarrassing and does not look good," Hartney said.
Hartney acknowledged that the handling of police body camera footage is still new, but said he believes the footage of the arrest shouldn't have been released until the investigation is complete.
Salt Lake City officials have stood behind their decision to release it to Wubbels and her attorney.
"Sadly, right now everyone wants to see things immediately," Hartney said.
"We do need to make sure we give that time for due process."
Gray, 43, served with police in the southeastern Idaho city of Rigby.
Chief Sam Tower said he was dedicated to the community of about 4,000 people and plowed snow from a sidewalk last winter so neighborhood kids wouldn't have to walk in the street.
"Bill was truly the best of mankind," Rigby police said in a Facebook post.
"Always willing to help, always willing to go the extra mile.
Bill was a big man, with a bigger heart.
Everything about him was generous and kind."
Tower previously thanked Wubbels for her efforts to protect Gray's rights and prevent his blood from being drawn.
"Obamacare" lives on.
Senate Republicans, short of votes, abandoned their latest and possibly final attempt to kill the health care law Tuesday, just ahead of a critical end-of-the-week deadline.
The repeal-and-replace bill's authors promised to try again at a later date, while President Donald Trump railed against "certain so-called Republicans" who opposed the GOP effort.
But for now, Trump and fellow Republicans who vowed for seven years to abolish President Barack Obama's law will leave it standing and turn their attention to overhauling the nation's tax code instead.
The GOP's predicament was summed up bluntly by Sen. Bill Cassidy of Louisiana, a lead author of the legislation: "Through events that are under our control and not under our control, we don't have the votes."
"Am I disappointed?
Absolutely," he said after a GOP lunch attended by Vice President Mike Pence.
Standing alongside Cassidy, Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said: "We haven't given up on changing the American health care system.
We are not going to be able to do that this week, but it still lies ahead of us."
"We do think it's time to turn to our twin priority, reforming the tax code," McConnell said.
There was much talk of returning to the repeal effort later, but not all Republican senators were putting on that brave face.
Sen John Kennedy of Louisiana described the bill as "dead as a doornail."
The bill Cassidy co-authored with Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina would have unraveled the central elements of Obama's law, including the requirement for Americans to carry health insurance or pay fines, and offered block grants to states to design their own systems with less federal control.
Republicans are also strongly in agreement on a need for action on overhauling the loophole-ridden U.S. tax code, and hope that if they also succeed in getting Americans a tax cut, their failure on health care will be forgiven.
Yet they began the health care effort with unanimity, too, up until the devilish details began to emerge and divide them as they pursued a partisan effort against united Democratic opposition.
Much the same could happen on taxes, where Republicans are at the beginning of the process, with plans to unveil a blueprint on Wednesday.
On health care, the urgency confronting the GOP this week lay in special budget rules that protected the legislation from a Democratic filibuster, allowing the Republicans to pass it with just 50 votes, plus a tie-breaker from Pence, instead of the 60 often required.
Those special rules expire Sept. 30.
Even with that advantage McConnell had little room for error given his slim 52-48 vote majority in the 100-member Senate.
And as in July, when Arizona Sen. John McCain cast a dramatic late-night thumbs down to kill the previous repeal bill, McConnell was unable to corral the 50 "Ayes."
In addition to McCain, moderate GOP Sen. Susan Collins of Maine announced her opposition, as did conservative Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky.
Several other senators were skeptical or undeclared, among them Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, who waited until McConnell had conceded defeat Tuesday to issue a statement criticizing "a lousy process" on the legislation.
A full analysis of the legislation was never completed by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, contributing to critics' complaints of a rushed process, but independent experts warned that millions could lose coverage, states could relax existing requirements, and coverage could end up being unaffordable for many, including people with pre-existing conditions.
That last element drew attention from late-night TV host Jimmy Kimmel, who got involved in the health debate in April after his son was born with a heart defect.
He was outspoken on his ABC show in denouncing the bill and accusing Cassidy of lying about it.
On Tuesday Kimmel tweeted a photo of his smiling baby son and wrote, "Thanks to all who stood up and spoke out from this happy guy and his less-fortunate friends #GoodbyeGrahamCassidy."
The legislation also would have cut $1 trillion from Medicaid over the next decade, prompting angry protesters in wheelchairs to descend on the one hearing held on the bill, on Monday, chanting "No cuts to Medicaid!
Save our liberty!"
Dozens were pulled out and arrested as cameras captured the striking scene.
For Trump, the failure added one more justification for his ongoing grudge against McConnell, and provided another reason to turn his back on Republicans and make deals with Democrats instead, as he's begun to do of late.
Indeed, he said in a private bipartisan meeting of House Ways and Means members Tuesday that he would work with Democrats on health care if the Republicans "didn't get repeal done," according to Rep. Richard Neal, D-Mass., who was present.
Neal quoted Trump as saying, "You get a better deal if it's bipartisan."
Graham insisted that despite Tuesday's failure, Republicans would return to the health issue after disposing of taxes.
But even under the optimistic assumption that Republicans will pass tax legislation in the coming months, Graham's timeline would put the next health care debate into the 2018 congressional campaign season, and that would be unlikely to improve the bill's chances.
It's unclear how the collapse of the GOP's latest repeal effort will affect Americans' 2018 sign-up season for subsidized private health policies under the Affordable Care Act.
Wednesday is the deadline for insurers to finalize 2018 contracts.
Uncertainty over whether the Trump administration will continue to pay monthly subsidies for assistance with copays and deductibles has been blamed for driving up next year's premiums.
Earlier this month senators launched a bipartisan effort to try to stabilize premiums for next year, but that was put on hold as Republicans pursued repeal.
Talks are resuming, but it's unclear if they can succeed, particularly since feelings are raw on both sides.
Associated Press writers Alan Fram, Ricardo Alonso-Zaldivar, Ken Thomas and Marcy Gordon contributed to this report.
Weeks after a veterans' health initiative received $2.1 billion in emergency funding, the Trump administration says the private-sector Veterans Choice health care program may need additional money as early as December to avoid a disruption of care for hundreds of thousands of veterans.
The Department of Veterans Affairs said in a statement Tuesday that it hoped to move quickly on a proposed long-term legislative fix that would give veterans even wider access to private doctors.
The proposal, under review by the White House Office of Management and Budget, would seek money to keep Choice running for much of next year as VA implements wider changes.
On Capitol Hill, the House Veterans Affairs Committee was already anticipating that the emergency funding approved in August may not last the full six months, according to spokespeople for both Republican and Democratic members on the panel.
They cited the VA's past problems in estimating Choice program cost.
That committee and the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee said they were closely monitoring the situation.
"It's disheartening," said Carlos Fuentes, legislative director of Veterans of Foreign Wars, citing his group's continuing conversations with VA about Choice funding.
"Imagine if a veteran has to cease chemotherapy treatment during Christmas."
Garry Augustine, executive director of Disabled American Veterans' Washington headquarters, said recent discussions with VA also gave him little confidence.
"It's always a concern," Augustine said.
"Legislative action needs to be done sooner rather than later."
In its statement to The Associated Press, VA said it could not say for certain when Choice funds would be depleted, but acknowledged that it could be as early as December or as late as March.
Earlier this year, the VA began limiting referrals to outside doctors as money began to run low and veterans reported delays in care.
The VA proposal for a long-term fix is expected to be released in the coming weeks.
"We have a long agenda, a lot more to do," VA Secretary David Shulkin told veterans last week at an event near Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.
"This fall, our major legislative focus is getting the Choice program working right."
The latest funding woes come amid political disagreement over the future direction of VA and its troubled Choice program, which was passed by Congress in 2014 in response to a wait-time scandal at the Phoenix VA medical center that spread nationwide.
Some veterans died while waiting months for appointments as VA employees manipulated records to hide delays.
The controversy spurred Congress to establish Choice as a pilot program designed to relieve pressure at VA hospitals.
Choice currently allows veterans to receive outside care if they must wait 30 days or more for an appointment or drive more than 40 miles to a VA facility.
But the program has encountered long delays of its own.
In a sign of a political divide, the left-leaning VoteVets ran a $400,000 ad campaign earlier this month in 13 states that warned viewers, "Don't let Trump privatize my VA." The American Federation of Government Employees has been staging rallies to bring attention to VA job vacancies left unfilled.
The VA said it remains committed to filling VA positions even as it finalizes plans to revamp Choice.
VA said it had about 34,000 vacancies, which they attributed in part to a shortage of health professionals.
Legislative proposals to fix VA have run the gamut, including one backed by the conservative Concerned Veterans for America that would give veterans almost complete freedom to see an outside doctor.
Another plan could create a presidential commission to review closing some VA medical centers.
"Congress can either double-down on the failed VA policies of the past or they can go in a different direction and empower veterans with more choice over their health care," said Dan Caldwell, policy director of Concerned Veterans for America.
During the presidential campaign, Trump repeatedly pledged to fix the VA by bringing accountability and expanding access to private doctors, criticizing the department as "the most corrupt."
At an Ohio event in July, Trump promised to triple the number of veterans "seeing the doctor of their choice."
More than 30 percent of VA appointments are made in the private sector.
Carrie Farmer, senior policy researcher for the RAND Corp., said the Choice debate raises broader questions about the role of government-run health care in treating veterans.
To many former troops, the VA health system is a "medical home" where patients feel more understood by doctors specially trained to treat battlefield injury, such as post-traumatic stress disorder.
Significantly expanding Choice could upend that government role as caretaker, she said.
"The big question is ultimately who will be responsible for our veterans' care?"
Farmer said.
Follow Hope Yen on Twitter at https://twitter.com/hopeyen1
Image copyright Jovanmandic

The elimination of measles has been achieved in the UK for the first time, the World Health Organization says.
The global health body classes a country as having eliminated the disease when it has stopped it freely circulating for at least three years.
While there are still small clusters, many of these are brought in from abroad and they are not spreading.
But health experts said there should be no complacency, warning there were several large outbreaks across Europe.
The news comes just a week after it was announced England had achieved the target of getting 95% of children to have had the first does of the measles, mumps and rubella vaccine by their fifth birthday.
Wales and Northern Ireland were already achieving it.
That figure is considered important because it ensures herd immunity, meaning the disease cannot spread because of the high level of vaccination rates.
MMR vaccination rates dipped after a panic caused by discredited former doctor Andrew Wakefield, who falsely claimed in the late 1990s that the jab caused autism.
Before that the UK was on track to achieve measles elimination.
'Huge achievement'

The announcement does not, however, mean that measles has been wiped out.
Last year there were over 500 cases in England, many linked to clusters of cases among young people going to festivals.
But what was important was that the disease was not able to spread more widely.
During the first six months of this year there have been fewer than 100 cases in England along with small clusters in Wales and Northern Ireland, which were linked to Romania where there is a major outbreak.
It marks a major shift from previous years.
In 1967 - the year before the vaccine was introduced - there were over 460,000 cases and 99 deaths.
By the 1980s that had been brought down to around 10,000 cases a year and even five years ago there were over 2,000 cases a year.
Deaths are now rare.
Since 2006 there have only been two children who have died from the disease.
Dr Mary Ramsay, head of immunisation at Public Health England, said: "This is a huge achievement and a testament to all the hard work by our health professionals in the NHS to ensure that all children and adults are fully protected with two doses of the MMR vaccine.
"We need to ensure that this is sustained going forward by maintaining and improving coverage of the MMR vaccine in children and by catching up older children and young adults who missed out."
Across Europe 42 out of 53 countries have now achieved elimination status.
Image copyright Terrence Higgins Trust Image caption Bernie McDade, 67, living with HIV since 2014

An increasing number of older people are being diagnosed with HIV across Europe, according to a new study.
Researchers from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control looked at diagnosis rates in 31 countries between 2004 and 2015.
They found that by 2015, around one in six new cases were in over-50s.
That's compared to one in 10 a decade ago.
The study suggests 16 countries, including the UK and Germany, have all seen a rise in cases in over-50s.
The research, published in The Lancet HIV journal, also found that older people are more likely to be diagnosed with advanced HIV, which is more difficult to treat.
Study author Dr Anastasia Pharris said: "We often associate HIV with younger people who are sexually active, we assume sexually active means young people.
"These findings suggest that the HIV epidemic is evolving in new directions In the last decade, the number of cases in older people has risen, whereas in younger people it's staying stable."
Unprotected sex

The study didn't look at why more older people are being infected.
But it found that the mode of transmission was predominantly through heterosexual sex, and that more men were becoming HIV positive in later life than women.
It called for better awareness and testing and campaigns tailored specifically towards the over-50s.
Lead author Dr Lara Tavoschi said: "Our findings illustrate a clear need to provide comprehensive HIV prevention programmes, including education, access to condoms, better testing opportunities, and treatment.
"We need to make both healthcare workers and the general population aware of this issue to reduce stigma and inform people about HIV risks and prevention methods."
Younger people still make up the majority of new infections, with more than 300,000 15 to 49-year-olds diagnosed with HIV across Europe during the 12 years covered by this study.
That's compared with just over 54,000 older people.
The world's population is ageing, with more older people facing a wide range of health problems.
Adding HIV to the list is a major concern.
Dr Michael Brady, medical director at the British Aids charity, Terrence Higgins Trust, said: "It is worrying to think how many people over 50 don't consider themselves to be at risk of HIV, and that is probably the reason why, in this study, older people were more likely to be diagnosed late with more advanced HIV."
The study found that around half of younger people are diagnosed in the more advanced stages of HIV, compared with just over two-thirds of those aged 50 or over.
This makes treatment more difficult and can cut the chances of longer-term survival.
Prof Janet Seeley, from the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, said: "In Europe, the USA, and Canada, increased mortality among older people living with HIV is often attributed to increased prevalence of illnesses such as cardiovascular disease, and kidney and liver failure, which can worsen HIV disease progression.
"Prevention of infection in all age groups is essential if the epidemic is to be stopped, and older age groups should not be omitted."
Image copyright Reuters

Any polite gym-goer will wipe down a spinning bike or weight machine after a sweaty workout to stop the spread of germs, so should people do the same for communal yoga mats?
Classes and fitness rooms are set to be busier - and sweatier - than usual, as thousands of gyms and clubs are opening their doors for UK National Fitness Day.
Meanwhile, 10 million Britons are already members of a gym.
It is usually up to members to use paper towels and disinfectant spray to clean off equipment another person has used - otherwise bacteria can lurk for several hours and viruses for several days.
"If you swab a yoga mat you probably are going to pick up viruses and certainly funguses," says Dr Seth Rankin, a GP and chief executive of the London Doctors Clinic.
"Minor things like athlete's foot can be picked up in any moist environment, it's why we wear flip flops in the gym showers," he says.
'Herpes' mats

A US surgeon - Dr David Anthony Greuner - recently issued a more serious warning by claiming that herpes, a virus more commonly associated as coming from sexual contact, could potentially be picked up from dirty mats.
He says in a blog post: "Making skin contact with a dirty yoga mat covered in germs and bacteria can lead to skin infections, acne, toenail fungus and even transfer of the herpes virus and staph and strep infections in susceptible individuals."
Meanwhile, a study in Sexual Health, a medical journal, also found a low risk of getting human papilloma virus (HPV), an infection which can lead to genital warts, by using unclean bike seats at the gym.
But GP Dr Rankin insists the risk of catching a more serious infection from a mat or seat is "vanishingly rare" and tells people not to worry.
"If you were doing yoga on a naturist farm you'd certainly want to be very careful," he says, since herpes is usually spread through mucous membranes or broken skin.
"But where people are wearing Lycra or normal gym clothes the chances are incredibly slim," he adds.
Image copyright Getty Images

But can we rely on gyms themselves to keep the equipment clean?
Sue Millward, Nuffield Health's lead for infection prevention, who monitors hygiene in its 111 gyms, says staff wipe mats and exercise equipment at the beginning and end of each day.
But she says it is impractical for gyms to clean machines after every workout.
"We keep an eye on what's going on and who's using equipment," she says.
"If our staff see that somebody has been perspiring a lot and not cleaning they may go round and clean it."
Busier gyms do get cleaned more often, but Ms Millward says Nuffield also puts up signs to encourage members to wipe down equipment once they are finished.
She adds: "If somebody is unwell, they're not generally going to be at the gym and infecting others, and we do tell people not to come in if they've got illness or flu."
Smelly kit

The best way to avoid getting ill from the gym is to accept that you will be picking up germs during a workout - and wash your hands and kit afterwards, says hygiene expert Dr Lisa Ackerley.
"Don't get too hung up about it," says Dr Ackerley, a chartered environmental health practitioner.
"There's a risk of cross-infection where you share equipment, but people do it and we're not dropping dead from it."
Image copyright Science Photo Library

She says people usually have a shower after a workout - but during exercise, should avoid rubbing their eyes or touching the top of a drinking bottle.
She adds: "Kit can get really smelly, even if it's being cleaned, because people wash it at a low temperature."
She says a sure-fire way to kill germs is to wash clothes at 60 degrees Celsius, or consider using a laundry sanitiser.
She adds: "It's simple really, after you've been on your gym equipment, don't go and have a sandwich without washing your hands."
Image copyright Science Photo Library

A blood test that could rule out a heart attack in under 20 minutes should be used routinely, say UK researchers.
A team from King's College London have tested it on patients and say the cMyC test could be rolled out on the NHS within five years.
They claim it would save the health service millions of pounds each year by freeing up beds and sending well patients home.
About two-thirds of patients with chest pain will not have had a heart attack.
A heart trace, called an ECG, can quickly show up major heart attacks, but it is not very good at excluding more common, smaller ones that can still be life-threatening.
Currently, patients with suspect chest pain and a clear ECG can have a different heart-attack blood test, called troponin, when they arrive at A&E.
But it needs to be repeated three hours later to pick up signs of heart muscle damage.
Image copyright British Heart Foundation Image caption Alison Fullingham ended up having coronary bypass surgery

Alison Fullingham, 49 and from Bolton, did not realise she was having a heart attack when she experienced pain in her upper chest, neck and jaw.
Despite a small change in her ECG, doctors initially suspected she was having a simple panic attack.
It was only hours later when her troponin tests came back that the correct diagnosis was reached.
Rapid diagnosis

Levels of cMyC (cardiac myosin-binding protein C) in the blood rise more rapidly and to a higher extent after a heart attack than troponin proteins, studies suggest.
That means doctors can use the new test to rule out a heart attack in a higher proportion of patients straightaway, according to the researchers who report their trial findings in the journal Circulation.
They carried out troponin and cMyC blood tests on nearly 2,000 people admitted to hospitals in Switzerland, Italy and Spain with acute chest pain.
The new test was better at giving patients the all-clear within the first three hours of presenting with chest pain.
Dr Tom Kaier, one of the lead researchers, funded by the British Heart Foundation (BHF) at St Thomas' Hospital, London, said: "Our research shows that the new test has the potential to reassure many thousands more patients with a single test, improving their experience and freeing up valuable hospital beds in A&E departments and wards across the country."
He says if the test were to be used routinely, it could provide doctors with reliable results within 15 to 30 minutes.
It is only being used for research at the moment, however.
Dr Kaier's hospital carries out around 7,800 troponin blood tests each year.
By his calculations, switching to cMyC would save his hospital 800,000 through reduced admissions.
Extrapolate that to other NHS hospitals and the savings could be millions of pounds, he says.
Prof Simon Ray, from the British Cardiovascular Society, said more research was needed before the new test could replace the troponin test.
"Unlike currently available blood tests which need to be repeated at least three hours after pain it looks as though a single test is enough to make a confident decision on whether a patient has or has not suffered a heart attack.
Not only can it be done earlier after the onset of symptoms but it also seems to be better at discriminating between heart attacks and other causes of chest pains.
This is very important."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The number of conventional births has dropped from 407,031 in 2011-12 to 382,514 in 2015-16

Rising obesity and older mothers are behind thousands of extra Caesarean births, experts have said.
Maternity figures show the numbers of both elected and emergency Caesarean sections have gone up despite a fall in the overall number of births.
The Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists said the figures reflect an increase in "complex births", with obesity and age the main reasons.
The Royal College of Midwives said the rise in Caesareans was "a worry".
More than a quarter of all babies born in England are now delivered that way.
Live from a maternity ward: Follow our updates for 24 hours

There were 73,551 elective - or planned - C-sections on the NHS in 2015-16, which was about 6,750 more than in 2011-12.
There was also a small rise in the number of emergency Caesarean births - up from 97,054 in 2011-12 to 99,403 in 2015-16.
What is a Caesarean birth?
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Caesarean sections: Why and when are they used?
Caesarean section - or C-section - is when a baby is delivered by making a surgical cut in to the abdomen and womb.
C-sections fall into two categories.
The first are called elective, or planned, C-sections.
These are planned in advance, usually for medical reasons, such as a baby that is either in the wrong position or very large.
The second are emergency Caesareans, which are usually carried out because of complications during labour.
Overall, the number of conventional births has dropped from 407,031 in 2011-12 to 382,514 in 2015-16.
According to the Office of National Statistics, the average age of mothers has increased by four years in the past 40 years and in 2015 more than a fifth of all live births in England and Wales were to mothers aged over 35.
Forty years earlier it was a little over one in 20.
A study by the Centre for Maternal and Child Enquiries found about 40,000 maternities each year in the UK involve women who are clinically obese.
Dr Pat O'Brien, a consultant obstetrician and spokesman for the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, said: "In recent years, there has been a higher number of complex births due to older maternal age and obesity and these are both associated with a number of complications, including a greater risk of miscarriage, stillbirth and a more complicated labour."
He stressed that most "elective" Caesareans were performed for clinical reasons, rather than because it was what the mother had chosen.
'It wasn't going to plan'

Image copyright www.zoegibbsphotography.co.uk Image caption Alexandra Borrett with baby Lucy and partner Andrew

A Caesarean section was not an easier alternative to a conventional birth for Alexandra Borrett

It brought discomfort and even hallucinations after Lucy was delivered.
Aged 32 and a keen runner, she was neither older nor overweight for a pregnant mother and had barely considered what a C-section involved.
Miss Borrett wanted a water birth at the midwife-led (now closed) Harwich Maternity Hospital but her contractions slowed, her waters did not break and there were concerns about her baby's heartbeat.
Cutting Lucy out took seconds.
So quick, said Miss Borrett, that she did not immediately realise her baby had been born because there was no cry.
Lucy, she learned, was not breathing and Miss Borrett feared the worst.
Image copyright Alexandra Borrett Image caption Lucy was not breathing but was quickly resuscitated

Lucy was taken away and successfully resuscitated.
Miss Borrett, who describes the aftermath as a significant discomfort and of feeling "very swollen", was given heavy painkillers which triggered hallucinations.
"I woke up in the middle of the night in the ward, I grabbed my baby and ran off down a corridor shouting that the hospital was on fire," she said.
She did not leave her house for 17 days afterwards because of the pain and even 13 months on, her scarring feels "tight".
And she described how she initially felt as though she had "failed" by not giving birth naturally, but has since decided it was the right thing for her baby.
Although she found talking through her experience with the consultant three months after Lucy was born helpful, she said there was very little support for mothers who have to have an emergency C-section.
Miss Borrett, meanwhile, has recently completed a 10km running race and has "never been fitter".
'Complications'

A spokesman for the Royal College of Midwives said: "The continued rise in Caesarean sections is a worry.
"Whilst some are needed for medical reasons we need to know why the rate is increasing, and take steps to address this.
"This issue is also linked to the rising numbers of overweight and obese pregnant women and I remain concerned about the increase in these numbers.
"These women are more likely to have a Caesarean section, and may also need additional support and care because of the potential complications that can occur in pregnancy for these women."
The number of births involving medical equipment, such as forceps or a ventouse, has dropped from more than 85,000 in 2011-12 to 82,204 in 2015-16.
Establishing which hospitals have seen the largest increases in elected Caesareans is difficult because of recent mergers.
So while both King's College Hospital with an apparent 665% increase and Barts Health with a 254% increase might appear to have the biggest rises, they have also absorbed two other hospitals each in the past five years, meaning the total number of births they manage have increased by similar amounts.
Queen Elizabeth Hospital (QEH) in Kings Lynn saw an increase in elective C-sections but a fall in the overall number of births over four years.
In 2011-12, 148 mothers had elected Caesareans out of 2,332 births.
By 2015-16, that number was 255 out of 2,300 births.
The hospital's chief nurse Emma Hardwick said: "Over the last five years, the QEH has seen a rise in the percentage of mothers having caesarean sections.
There are a number of reasons for this increase at the trust, these include obese mothers, IVF, older mothers and changes in guidelines.
"At the QEH there have been many highly welcomed initiatives for mothers and their babies in recent years to support lowering the Caesarean section rate and give women more choice, for example homebirth and the opening of the midwifery-led unit."
Image caption Emma Friedmann says her son was harmed by the valproate

Families with children who have been harmed by the epilepsy drug sodium valproate are demanding a public inquiry and compensation, saying they have been left with no help.
They voiced their anger outside a London hearing that is assessing if warnings for patients are adequate.
It is thought thousands of children in the UK have been left with disabilities caused by valproate since the 1970s.
Mum Emma Friedmann says she wasn't fully informed of the risks.
Her son, Andrew, 18, has severe autism and other problems including hearing and sight problems.
Emma was taking the drug when she got pregnant and carried on using it.
"I wasn't properly told about all the risks," says the 46-year-old from Leicester.
"Andrew now needs full-time care, 24/7.
Families like me need justice.
We want a public inquiry and compensation."
Carol Lapidge, 50, from London, whose daughter, Nicola, 31, has learning difficulties, says: "The care has not been there.
I've had to fight for physiotherapy, speech and language therapy and occupational therapy.
There has not been enough help for Nicola."
Susan Cole, 53, from London, whose daughter Hannah, 17, has learning difficulties, says many women have similar stories with some "horrific" cases where women have been "left with nothing".
"The dads have left, they have no money and have been unable to work.
"There are also the miscarriages and stillbirths.
We don't know how many of them there have been.
But there's been no help and no investigation into what went wrong - why there was not more warnings, why doctors have not been clearer about the risks."
Drug in use since 1970s

The drug, known as Epilim, is used to control seizures.
It carries a 10% risk of physical abnormalities and a 40% risk of autism, low IQ and learning disabilities.
Valproate is an effective treatment for epilepsy, bipolar disorders and migraine - and doctors prescribe it because it is the best option for some women.
Image caption The warning has been on the outside of valproate pill packets since last year in Britain

Instructions for doctors - and, more recently, patient leaflets - say valproate should not be used during pregnancy unless there is no safer alternative and only after a careful discussion of the risks.
Sodium valproate has been prescribed since the 1970s, but it was only last year that additional warnings were put on the outside of packets under a new regulatory system.
The European Medicines Agency review in London is hearing testimonies from families, experts and the drug's makers Sanofi.
Drug firm 'sincerely empathises' with families

Sanofi has said it will review the data on the risk-minimisation measures currently in place, but has argued valproate helps patients avoid potentially fatal seizures.
Speaking at the EMA public hearing, Eric Teo, who is responsible for drug safety at Sanofi, said he "sincerely empathises" with the families affected.
He acknowledged there were increased risks of physical and cognitive problems with using valproate during pregnancy.
But he said patients and doctors needed to balance the risks and benefits as pregnancy was a "huge challenge" for women with epilepsy who rely on the drug.
He said the firm had "always provided the most up-to-date scientific information".
And he added: "Everyone in the health care system has a role to play to ensure risks and benefits are properly understood."
Medicines watchdog the MHRA says the decision to use any medicine in pregnancy requires a careful evaluation of the benefits and risks to both the woman and to her unborn child.
It says that the safety of valproate in pregnancy has been kept under constant review, and as new data have become available, the warnings have been updated.
In France, 1,200 families are preparing to sue Sanofi, accusing it of failing to sufficiently inform women of the risks.
The French government is supporting the legal action and has put aside about 9m to compensate the families.
In 2010, families in England and Wales had to abandon a court case when their legal aid was withdrawn three weeks before the case was due to begin.
They signed letters promising never to sue again and, in return, were not billed for Sanofi's multi-million pound legal costs.
The EMA will report on the review's findings by end of the year.
Image copyright PA

Victims of the contaminated blood scandal in the 1970s and 1980s have won a ruling allowing them to launch a High Court action to seek damages.
It was "appropriate" to issue an order allowing about 500 claimants to seek compensation, a court official said.
But lawyers for the Department of Health argued this was "premature" as there was a public inquiry pending.
At least 2,400 people died after they were given blood products that were infected with hepatitis C and HIV.
Thousands of NHS patients were given the products, which came from abroad, including the US.
In July, Prime Minister Theresa May announced a UK-wide inquiry into the scandal, which has been called the worst treatment disaster in the history of the NHS.
Many of those affected believe recipients were not told of the risks involved and say there was a cover-up.
The claimants allege that the Department of Health failed in its duty to take reasonable care to prevent injury or loss to NHS patients when the blood products were imported into the UK.
'About the truth'

The court official, Senior Master Fontaine, was told that more than 4,500 people contracted hepatitis C and/or HIV in the 1970s and 80s as a result of the blood products.
Steven Snowden QC, appearing for the claimants, told the court it had recently transpired that information and documents which could have helped the victims and families in cases brought earlier had not been disclosed.
He said that because of this, it would be "unconscionable" for the Department of Health to rely on earlier settlement agreements.
Chris Smith, whose father Ray died aged 32 in 1986 as a result of blood contamination, was in court and welcomed the order.
The 39-year-old from Bedford said: "I have been dealing with this for 31 years.
Now we have this information we want to see something done about it.
"This is more about truth than anything else - my dad is in his grave, for what?"
After the hearing, the Department of Health said in a statement that the scandal was "an appalling tragedy which should simply never have happened" and the government was "committed to a full and transparent inquiry".
The BBC's health editor Hugh Pym said the ruling in favour of the surviving victims and families of the deceased was "the beginning of a long process".
What is the contaminated blood scandal?
A recent parliamentary report found about 7,500 patients were infected by imported blood products.
Many were patients with an inherited bleeding disorder called haemophilia.
They needed regular treatment with a clotting agent Factor VIII, which is made from donated blood.
The UK imported supplies and some turned out to be infected.
Much of the plasma used to make Factor VIII came from donors like prison inmates in the US, who sold their blood.
Jason Evans was just four years old when his father Jonathan, a haemophiliac, died after being infected with HIV through contaminated Factor VIII treatment.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Jason Evans' father died of Aids after being infected with contaminated blood

Jason recently discovered that in late 1984 his father had raised concerns with his doctors about Factor VIII, but he says he was told "there was nothing to worry about, this is sensationalism and not to pay attention to it.
And he trusted his doctor."
Ahead of Tuesday's hearing, Des Collins of Collins Solicitors, which represents Factor 8 - one of the campaign groups involved - said the public inquiry had "at last indicated some willingness on the part of government to address the claimant's concerns".
"Against this background it is regrettable that the secretary of state (for health) has not chosen to do so in these civil proceedings," he said.
"We welcome this opportunity to present the claimant's case to the court for the first time in over 25 years."
Families of those who died are being consulted about what form the inquiry should take.
It could be a public Hillsborough-style inquiry or a judge-led statutory inquiry.
Image copyright Corazzol et al Image caption Tests show the man's brain activity before (L) and after (R) the treatment

A man in France has regained some degree of consciousness after being in a vegetative state for 15 years.
Doctors treated the 35-year-old, injured in a car accident, with an experimental therapy that involved implanting a nerve stimulator into his chest.
Within a month, he could respond to simple instructions, turning his head and following an object with his eyes.
Experts say the results are potentially very exciting, but need repeating.
Vagal nerve stimulation (VNS) may not work as effectively in patients with different patterns of brain damage.
But Angela Sirigu, from the Institut des Sciences Cognitives Marc Jeannerod, in Lyon, said it had chosen a really challenging patient to test the treatment.
The vagus nerve connects the brain to many parts of the body and helps control automatic or subconscious functions, including alertness and wakefulness.
After one month of vagal nerve stimulation, the patient's mother reported he had an improved ability to stay awake when listening to his therapist reading a book.
And brain scans reflected this improvement, Current Biology journal reports.
He also started responding to "threat".
For instance, when the doctor's head suddenly approached the patient's face, he reacted with surprise, opening his eyes wide.
Ms Sirigu said: "Brain plasticity and brain repair are still possible even when hope seems to have vanished.
"After this case report, we should consider testing larger populations of patients.
"This treatment can be important for minimally conscious patients by giving them more chances to communicate with the external world."
Dr Vladimir Litvak, from The Wellcome Centre for Human Neuroimaging, at University College London's Institute of Neurology, said: "This might be an interesting new lead, but I would suggest to be cautious about these results until they are reproduced in more patients.
"It is hard to know based on a single case how likely this treatment is to work in the general patient population."
Vegetative state

A vegetative state is when a person is awake without signs of awareness; they may open their eyes, wake up and fall asleep at regular intervals and have basic reflexes; they can also regulate their heartbeat and breathing without assistance

A person in a vegetative state does not show any meaningful responses, such as following an object with their eyes or responding to voices; they also show no signs of experiencing emotions

A continuing - or persistent - vegetative state is when this happens for more than four weeks

A permanent vegetative state is defined as more than six months if caused by a non-traumatic brain injury, or more than 12 months if caused by a traumatic brain injury such as a blow to the head

If a person is in a permanent vegetative state, recovery is extremely unlikely but not impossible

Source: NHS Choices

Follow Michelle on Twitter
Image caption In 2016, Boy Y was sent, by Norfolk County Council - which is responsible for his care - hundreds of miles away to a secure unit in Scotland

A teenager who was a risk to himself and the public could not be found a secure mental health bed for a month in England, Scotland or Wales, his father claims.
Secure accommodation was sought for Boy Y, from Norfolk, in July but none was available.
Mr Justice Holman, who ruled on an injunction over the case, said the lack of secure beds was "scandalous".
NHS England said improving mental health care was an "absolute priority".
Boy Y, whose identity cannot be revealed for legal reasons, suffers mental health problems and in the summer of 2016 his father believed he was a "danger to himself and the public".
In response, Boy Y was sent by Norfolk County Council - responsible for his care - hundreds of miles away to a secure unit in Scotland.
'Took drugs'

In July this year, he was moved to "a non-secure residential placement in Scotland" even though at the time his "psychological health" was a "concern", the boy's father told the BBC.
He said his son "absconded two to three times" from the non-secure unit he was moved too.
Mental health beds for young people

There are about 1,440 hospital beds for children and young people with mental health problems in the NHS in England.
A recent review found they were not evenly spread - for example, some areas had no in-patient beds within a 50-mile radius.
The picture is also complicated by who those beds are for - some are in specialist units for children with eating disorders, others are in high dependency units for young people with complex needs.
A survey of child and adolescent mental health workers, conducted by the Royal College of Psychiatrists in 2015, found 62% had seen adolescent patients held in inappropriate settings, with 14% saying patients had attempted to kill themselves while waiting for a suitable bed.
"The first time he got out, he went to a party with a load of the local hoodlums and ended up taking drugs," said his father.
Eleven days later, the council decided he should go back to a secure unit.
But by then, his bed had gone and his father was told none for adolescents were available in England, Scotland or Wales.
The council's director of children's services Matt Dunkley, said: "The lack of secure and specialist beds for children is a national issue, which has received widespread publicity in recent weeks.
"While we cannot comment on any individual child in detail, we are aware of the vulnerability of children with these needs and will do all we can to provide safe care for them.
We have worked around the clock to find suitable accommodation for this young man and now have a secure, supportive placement arranged that we believe will safely meet his needs."
'Absolute priority'

In August, his father said the council told him "they can't put a chain around him they can't lock him up because they have nowhere to put him".
Mr Justice Holman, speaking after an injunction brought by Norfolk County Council was amended to allow the BBC to report on the case, said: "The extreme shortage of secure accommodation is scandalous."
The council had said it "originally sought an injunction to protect the identity and interests of the young person and their wellbeing".
In a statement, NHS England said improving young people's mental health was "an absolute priority".
"Although transformation won't happen overnight, work is well under way to make sure the right care is available at home or as close to home as possible," it said.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Recent years have seen demonstrations both for and against repealing the Eighth Amendment

The Irish government says it will hold a referendum next year on whether to change the country's laws on abortion, one of the strictest in Europe.
Voters will be asked to decide whether to change the Irish constitution under which abortion is only allowed if the life of the mother is in danger.
A woman convicted of having an illegal abortion faces up to 14 years in jail.
But they are allowed to travel abroad for terminations.
The vote could be held in May or June.
The Eighth Amendment of the Irish constitution, introduced in 1983, gives an equal right to life to a pregnant woman and an unborn child.
However, thousands of women a year go abroad to have an abortion.
The Irish government says it has agreed an "indicative timeline" for a referendum on abortion legislation.
Taoiseach Leo Varadkar, said: "Any amendment to our constitution requires careful consideration by the people.
"They should be given ample time to consider the issues and to take part in well-informed public debate."
The date of the referendum depends on an all-party parliamentary committee reporting back by Christmas.
A member of the committee, Anne Rabbitte, said it would make every effort to meet its deadline, but that it may not prove possible.
This could delay the legislation required for a referendum in the middle of next year.
If the dates are confirmed, the vote on the issue would happen just weeks before a planned visit to the country by Pope Francis, who is expected for the World Meeting of Families, from 21-26 August next year.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Opponents of repealing the amendment say the mother and the unborn child have an equal right to life

In 2013, new rules came into effect under Ireland's Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act, to allow abortion when there is a real and substantial risk to a woman's life.
However, the ban remains in cases of rape, incest, inevitable miscarriage and fatal foetal abnormality.
On Tuesday, the Irish government also announced a timetable for a number of other referendums, including votes on blasphemy, the woman's life within the home, and the introduction of directly-elected mayors.
There are also referendums scheduled for 2019.
These include one to reduce to two years the time couples would have to live apart before getting a divorce.
Proposals to allow Irish people living abroad to vote in presidential elections, and to reduce the voting age to 16 are also planned for June 2019.
Image copyright Getty Images

The UK's chief medical officers (CMOs) are being urged to protect children from the risks of rugby injuries by removing contact from the school game.
Prof Allyson Pollock, from Newcastle University, is presenting new evidence that banning tackling would reduce concussion, head and neck injuries.
A spokesman for World Rugby said it was unaware of any new evidence that would challenge the current position.
Last year, the CMOs rejected a call for a ban on tackling in youth rugby.
They said the benefits of learning, training and playing rugby outweighed the risks of injury.
Writing in an opinion piece for the BMJ, Prof Pollock and Graham Kirkwood, also from Newcastle University, said that governments had "a duty to protect children from risks of injury and to ensure safety of children" under a United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (Article 19).
Body checking ban

They referred to a study they published in July in the British Journal of Sports Medicine in which they re-examined the rates and risks of injuries in sport.
Their analysis found that rugby had the highest concussion rates in children - 4.18 concussions per 1,000 athlete exposures - compared to 1.2 for ice hockey and 0.53 for American football.
And they cited evidence from Canada that changing the rules could make a difference.
When there was a ban on body-checking opposing players in under-13 ice hockey, a review found a 67% reduction in concussion risk.
Image copyright Getty Images

Prof Pollock said children who wanted to could still play contact rugby outside school, for clubs, but schools should not be able to enforce contact rugby.
She said: "We call on the chief medical officers to act on the evidence and advise the UK government to put the interests of the child before those of corporate professional rugby unions and remove harmful contact from the school game."
The authors reported research that girls were found to be three or four times more likely than boys to be affected by symptoms of concussion for 28 days, and they also highlighted the links between head injuries and an increased risk of dementia and Alzheimer's disease.
Keep active plea

Prof Tara Spires-Jones, deputy director for the Centre for Discovery Brain Sciences at the University of Edinburgh, said current research urged caution in games where there was a significant risk of head injury - but the science wasn't conclusive.
"The data on specifically whether playing rugby or other contact sports in school increases your risk of dementia are not as robust yet due to a lack of large prospective studies," she said.
"It is also very clear that there are many health risks of leading a sedentary lifestyle."
Dr Alan Carson, an expert in acquired brain injury, said public health experts should think carefully before calling for measures that could cut participation in sport.
"The health crisis facing Britain's children is not concussion but obesity and lack of exercise," he said.
'Safe environment'

A Department for Education spokeswoman said schools had the flexibility to offer a diverse PE curriculum which suited the needs of their students.
"We expect schools to be aware of all of the risks associated with sporting activities and to provide a safe environment for pupils.
Ministers said staff should also be given the information and training they needed to manage risks effectively.
A spokesman for World Rugby said it took player safety very seriously at all levels of the sport.
"With appropriate supervision and coaching, rugby is a sport that empowers young people, builds confidence, shapes valuable life skills and promotes a healthy lifestyle," he added.
Image copyright PA

Labour is calling on the government to spend an extra 500m on a winter bailout fund for the NHS in England.
Shadow health secretary Jonathan Ashworth said the cash was needed to increase capacity in struggling hospitals and pay for extra staff.
He also said it was Labour's "ambition" to return NHS funding increases to the same level as during the 1997-2010 Labour governments.
The Department for Health says it has "robust" plans in place for the winter.
And it will pump "an extra 100m for [accident and emergency] departments and 2bn funding for the social care system" to get it through the cold season.
But Mr Ashworth said: "We've had no clear explanation from [Health Secretary] Jeremy Hunt and [Prime Minister] Theresa May about how the NHS will be prepared this winter.
"We are hearing that we could have a serious flu outbreak this winter.
"So if the government have robust plans, we need them to come forward."
Extra money is needed to boost the capacity of hospitals, allow the NHS to hire extra non-agency staff and improve the transfer of patients to social care, Mr Ashworth said in a speech to the party's conference in Brighton later.
He told delegates the prime minister must not stick her "head in the sand" because a "collapse" on the same scale as last year's winter crisis would lead to thousands of people waiting longer for A&E treatment.
Labour has pledged to boost spending on the NHS through a 5% hike in income tax for the highest earners and changes to corporation tax.
Mr Ashworth told BBC Radio 4's Today programme the 7bn extra promised for the NHS in Labour's general election manifesto was a "substantial investment".
But he said it fell short of what was needed in the long-term, which was a return to the increases seen during the last Labour governments.
"We should be giving the NHS 4% a year, and I want us to work towards getting back to that 4% increase," he told Today.
"But what I cannot do is say on day one of a Labour government it will definitely be 4% because we have to manage the public finances prudently."
Asked about shadow chancellor John McDonnell's announcement that Private Finance Initiative (PFI) contracts would be brought "in-house" if Labour won power, he said it would "take time" and not happen "overnight".
"NHS experts generally accept that it is only a handful which are causing hospital trusts across the country a significant problem, but let's look at every single one in detail," Mr Ashworth said.
"I am not going to make a sort of hypothetical guess of how many contracts will be [brought back in-house].
"There are a handful of hospital trusts who have got a problem with their deficits and their financing which is because of the PFI contract they are in."
Image copyright Science Photo Library

Doctors are highlighting a rare but serious complication of liposuction, which can lead to fat globules entering the lungs.
They reported on the case of a 45-year-old woman who developed respiratory failure after fat was sucked out of her lower legs and knees.
She recovered from the life-threatening condition, the Birmingham medics said.
Liposuction is increasingly common in the UK and being carried out in higher risk patients, the BMJ report said.
Dr Adam Ali, from Sandwell and West Birmingham Hospitals intensive care unit, said no previous case of fat embolism syndrome (FES) had been reported in the UK before.
But he said it was important to consider the possibility that it could occur.
The patient in question had been morbidly obese and had undergone a gastric bypass before having liposuction to help her become more mobile and start to lose weight.
But 36 hours after the operation, she became very unwell with serious breathing problems and was transferred to intensive care.
Thanks to the prompt actions of doctors, she was sedated and ventilated.
She was discharged from hospital three weeks later.
The report said recognising and diagnosing FES was "a significant challenge" for most doctors because there were few obvious symptoms.
What is liposuction?
It is a cosmetic procedure where fat is sucked out of the body from areas where it is hard to shift, such as the thighs, hips and tummy.
It works best in people who are a normal weight and in areas where the skin is tight.
The results normally last for a long time, providing a healthy weight can be maintained.
But there are side-effects and NHS Choices describes how liposuction can sometimes go wrong.
Image copyright Getty Images

People in Wales who exercise regularly are more likely to drink above the recommended alcohol allowance than those who do no sport, a survey has found.
The National Survey for Wales found 58% of people who exercise three times or more a week drink within the limit.
That is compared to 77% of people who did no exercise.
Dr Britt Hallingberg, of Cardiff University, said it could be down to the social aspect of sport.
"The relationships between sport and alcohol use among older adults might be there for reasons that are different from young people, due to personality and sensation seeking," she told BBC's Good Morning Wales programme.
"Maybe young people who participate in sport are the same people who just go on to drink alcohol anyway."
Dr Hallingberg, who specialises in looking at the relationship between sport and alcohol, added: "Sport helps create social networks, so young people make friends through sports, and then they just happen to go out and engage in alcohol use."
Image copyright Getty Images

Dr Carwyn Jones, professor of sport ethics at Cardiff Metropolitan University, said it did not help that sporting successes were often celebrated with a binge drinking session.
"It's a form of social capital in sport to be able to hold your drink," he said.
"So, although elite athletes are more fit, it's still a problem in elite sport.
We've seen problems with Wayne Rooney, or the All Blacks where, when they're allowed to go out, they binge drink.
"Sport can do its part by changing this perception that alcohol is acceptable, normal and aspirational."
But a paper collating 17 studies, investigating the link between alcohol and sport, concluded 14 of the 17 studies showed taking part in sport actually reduced drug and alcohol use in adolescents and young people.
'Born an alcoholic'

Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Christian Roberts said the culture in football had changed

Former Wales footballer Christian Roberts, who has struggled with alcohol addiction for most of his life, said the culture within sport when he was playing did not help.
He said: "When I was playing [football] there was a culture - the cases of beer were the most important thing to put on the team bus during away games.
"I was one of those who carried the cases of beer.
"However, as generations have changed sport has changed.
It's not alcohol in sport, it's alcohol in society.
That's the challenge.
"Sport only represents society.
If we challenge it and make it better in society it will make it better in sport."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Fewer adults who do sport regularly were smokers compared to those who exercised less

The UK-wide guidelines suggest:

Adults should not drink more than 14 units of alcohol a week - about six pints of standard strength beer/lager or seven 175ml glasses of wine

Alcohol intake of those 14 units should be spread over three or more days

There is no "safe" amount of alcohol to drink during pregnancy

Looking at alcohol use more generally, the survey of 10,000 people found 31% of adults exceeded the recommended guidelines.
But 17% of Welsh adults are non-drinkers, while 15% said they were binge or heavy drinkers.
The survey also found adults who take part in sport three times a week or more were more likely to have healthy lifestyle behaviours than those who exercise less than once a week.
It said a lower proportion of adults who did sport regularly were smokers compared to those who exercised less.
About 45% of people who exercise regularly were a healthy weight, compared to 35% of people who did less sport.
Image copyright Getty Images

A therapist says he is "astonished" by a university's decision to stop him studying people who decide to reverse gender reassignment operations.
James Caspian wanted to write a thesis on "detransition" as part of his master's degree in counselling and psychotherapy at Bath Spa University.
He said it was rejected by the university's ethics committee because it could be "politically incorrect".
The university said it couldn't comment until after an internal investigation.
Mr Caspian, a counsellor who specialises in therapy for transgender people, told Radio 4: "I was astonished at that decision.
"I think that a university exists to encourage discussion, research - dissent even, challenging perhaps ideas that are out of date or not particularly useful."
He says he wanted to study people who had swapped gender and then changed their minds after coming across evidence of a growing number of people who regretted having the surgery and finding no research had been done into the subject.
Image copyright James Caspian Image caption James Caspian wanted to research "detransition"

The university, formerly known as Bath College of Higher Education before gaining full university status in 2005, initially accepted his proposal but he struggled to find people willing to take part.
He said: "I found it very difficult to get people willing to talk openly about the experience of reversing surgery.
"They said they felt too traumatised to talk about it, which made me think we really need to do the research even more."
Better 'not to offend'

He amended his proposal - to include people who had transitioned to men and reverted to living as women but without reversing their surgery - and resubmitted it, but it was rejected by the ethics committee.
"The fundamental reason given was that it might cause criticism of the research on social media and criticism of the research would be criticism of the university and they also added it was better not to offend people," he said.
According to the Times, it was rejected because "engaging in a potentially politically incorrect piece of research carries a risk to the university".
American transgender activist Riki Wilchins said studies on transgender people could have a "political undercurrent" and potentially have a negative effect on the way they are treated.
"People have been launching studies that undercut transgender people's access to surgery for decades now," she told Radio 4.
But Mr Caspian said older studies were out of date and the research was necessary "to help people".
He added: "The whole field has completely changed over the last few years.
"The idea that we might use the information from the research I was going to do in a way that wouldn't help people is completely wrong."
He is considering a legal challenge but is waiting for the university to conclude an internal investigation.
Image copyright Getty Images

Pupils who are showing early signs of anxiety, depression or self-harm will be able to receive specialist help at school.
A pilot scheme is being launched in Wales where NHS staff will be on hand to give better mental health support.
They can help spot problems early and ensure a child has the right care.
The 1.4m, two-year Welsh Government trial will take place across north east and south east Wales and Ceredigion.
A week ago, the National Education Union urged the Welsh Government to introduce wellbeing officers into schools.
In the 12 months to October 2016, there were 19,000 referrals to Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services (CAMHS) in Wales - a 3,000 rise on the previous year.
Some children feel under pressure to do well in exams while others have said they are being bullied through social media.
But a UK-wide benchmarking of specialist CAMHS in 2016 indicated about a third of all referrals were inappropriate.
Social media impact

Carol Phillips, student support and child protection officer at Crickhowell High School in Powys, said she had noticed a big change over the years.
"In today's society for young people they are faced with so many challenges," she said.
"I think social media has had a major impact on how this generation are.
"They live their lives online, often skewing what's reality and what's not reality, and with that comes many problems."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Carol Phillips, student support officer at Crickhowell High School in Powys, highlighted the role social media has played

She said it could affect self-esteem and their image but added there were other reasons people suffer mental health issues.
"We also see people who present to us with anxiety, depression, eating disorders, self-harm to name a few.
"In school as well there are exam pressures and [pressures] with the current changes in the framework of assessments for young people."
Dr Dave Williams, divisional director of family and therapy services at Aneurin Bevan University Health Board, said there was concern about the number of children needing mental health help.
"There are lots of people who have mental health problems, not all of whom have mental illness.
"CAMHS has come under a lot of pressure to be able to be the solution to some of these problems.
"But if we don't do anything to turn the tap off, we'll run out of resource.
It's a whole system approach which is required."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Naomi Lea, 19, said she suffered mental health problems when she was at school

Announcing the trial Health Secretary Vaughan Gething said: "One in four people in Wales will experience mental health problems at some point in their lives.
"Getting the right treatment at an early stage, coupled with greater awareness of conditions, can in many cases prevent long term adverse impacts.
"This will ensure children, teachers and others charged with caring for children in our schools, receive support to promote good emotional and mental health."
In August, charity Samaritans Cymru called for lessons in emotional and mental health to be mandatory for all secondary schools in Wales and has launched a pilot scheme in Cardiff.
Video

Tammy Morris says she felt like she was "on her own" when her baby Ila refused to breastfeed, and then had a severe allergic reaction to milk formula.
It took several weeks for Ila to be diagnosed with cow's milk protein allergy (CMPA).
Around 2% of babies have the allergy.
Doctors say it can be hard to detect, but there is a milk substitute that can be prescribed.
Video

A terminally-ill Kent man has taken up photography since he was diagnosed with the incurable muscle-wasting illness Kennedy's syndrome.
Scott Sinden, from Faversham, has gone on to win awards for his work.
Plus-size models 'proud of their curves'

It's time for plus-size women to be celebrated, say organisers of the new fashion week in Lagos.
Video

Almost 50m of fake Viagra has been confiscated in the last five years.
Raids are being carried out to try to crack down on the problem.
Video

Ex-Norwich City player Cedric Anselin has spoken about his battle with mental health issues.
The French under-21 International, who now coaches young footballers, told how depression led him to contemplate taking his life multiple times a day.
If you, or someone you know, have been affected by mental health issues, support can be found here.
Video

Three people who have gone through cancer treatment on what they would write to the disease.
Inspired by BBC presenter Victoria Derbyshire's book 'Dear Cancer, Love Victoria', 5live asked three people at the Christie hospital to write their own letter to the disease.
Film by Nick Garnett.
This clip is from Afternoon Edition on 20 September 2017.
Video

Women whose children have been harmed by the epilepsy drug sodium valproate will give evidence to a European-wide safety review in London next week.
Three of Julie Marjot's children have been affected by sodium valproate.
'It's a myth you're just going to have a lump'

Ellie, who was diagnosed with Hodgkin Lymphoma when she was 15, describes the symptoms of blood cancer.
How to tell your child you have cancer?
Its one of the hardest things a parent can do, so UCLH Cancer Collaborative has released an animated film with advice on how to talk to children about a cancer diagnosis.
Luis Herrera held the King of the Mountains jersey in all three Grand Tours

Luis Herrera, the first South American cyclist to win a Grand Tour, says he has skin cancer caused by his exposure to the sun during his career.
The 56-year-old Colombian won the Vuelta a Espana, one of the three major tours, in 1987.
He said cancer spots on his face, arms and hands were likely caused by the lack of precautions taken in the 1980s.
"I'm feeling good, I'm well, but I'm taking great care of my arms and my face," he told Colombia's Blu Radio.
"Maybe at the time we didn't take precautions to apply sunblock because there was no time.
Sometimes we were sweating a lot," he added.
Herrera, who also held the King of the Mountains jerseys in the Vuelta, the Giro d'Italia and the Tour de France, is having treatment to prevent his condition worsening.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Cases of a flesh-eating disease have rapidly increased in parts of Victoria (File photo)

An Australian schoolgirl suffering from a flesh-eating ulcer is calling for better government funding for research into the infectious disease.
Ella Crofts, 13, is slowly recovering from a Buruli ulcer, a skin disease usually found in the developing world.
Her case has prompted doctors to warn of a growing epidemic in area of Victoria state where she lives.
Health authorities there have recorded 159 cases of the infection in the year to September.
That is nearly three times the number of cases recorded three years ago.
Experts do not know how to prevent the disease nor how it is contracted.
WARNING: Graphic image below

Ms Croft, from the town of Tyabb, says her case began in April, with a sore knee that deteriorated into an open wound.
"Slowly it got worse, with my knee becoming swollen and inflamed, until one day, the skin started breaking down," she said in a statement online.
The outdoors-loving teenager said dry swab tests failed to pick up any bacteria, and antibiotics for common infection also didn't stop her knee worsening.
Her doctor, infectious disease expert and Associate Prof Daniel O'Brien at the Geelong and Royal Melbourne hospitals, told the BBC that Ella had suffered a severe case of Mycobacterium Ulcerans disease or Buruli ulcer.
"The bacteria gets under the skin and slowly eats its way through the skin and the tissue underneath a limb until it's treated.
The longer you leave it the worse it gets, it's a progressive, destructive infection."
Ella has had three operations and months of powerful antibiotics to treat the destructive infection.
"I've had six months of quality medical care and still have not recovered," she said.
What is the Buruli ulcer?
A skin disease caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium ulcerans.
The bacteria emits toxins that destroy skin cells, small blood vessels and the fat under the skin, leading to ulcers forming and skin loss.
The ulcer gets bigger with time and can lead to permanent disfigurement or disability.
Usually affects limbs but can also be found on the face and body.
Doctors do not know how the disease is transmitted to humans but it's believed to arise from the environment and soil.
There are also theories that mosquitoes can carry the bacteria.
The teenager has set up a petition calling on federal and state government to increase research into the disease.
"Why are the numbers in Victoria increasing so rapidly?
Why is it moving?
It used to be common on the Bellarine peninsula, now it's mostly on the Mornington Peninsula," she wrote in her petition.
Image copyright ELLA CROFTS Image caption The Buruli ulcer attacking Ella's knee

Associate Prof O'Brien told the BBC there was a "worsening epidemic" in coastal Victoria.
"The cases are rapidly increasing, they seem to be doubling every year, and we're getting twice as many severe cases than we used to, maybe because the organism is growing more virulent," he said.
He was also concerned that the disease was popping up in different areas, and said health authorities had limited knowledge of how to intervene.
Victoria's Department of Health said it was studying local possum faeces for traces of the bacteria and providing funding for studies into mosquitoes.
It is also working with the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners to develop training guides for doctors to help them diagnose the disease quicker.
In Australia, cases of Buruli ulcers are most common in localised coastal areas of Victoria.
It has also been diagnosed in the tropical regions of Queensland.
It is more commonly found in rural West Africa, Central Africa, New Guinea, Latin America and tropical regions of Asia.
Image copyright PA

Can being in a positive mood really make the flu vaccination more effective?
Researchers at the University of Nottingham have suggested there is a link between the two.
But we don't yet know whether it's being happy that causes the flu jab to work better, or if there's something else at play.
A group of 138 adults between the ages of 65 and 85 were given a flu jab and asked to record their psychological state for two weeks before and four weeks after the vaccine.
They had to answer questions like, "How energised do you feel?"
and, "How out of control do you feel?"
on a scale of one to five.
The researchers found a link between those who recorded a good mood throughout the six-week observation period, and levels of flu protection detected in a person's blood four months later.
But there was an even stronger link found between the jab's effectiveness and being in a good mood on the day of the vaccine itself.
Cause and effect

It's important to note we only know that people in a good mood on the day of their jab were more likely to have more antibodies in their blood afterwards, not whether it's the good mood itself causing this effect.
Establishing causation rather than just correlation is a constant challenge faced by researchers.
One often-cited example used to explain this is the link between ice-cream sales and murder rates: as ice-cream sales go up, so do murder rates.
But Mr Whippys aren't causing people to commit crimes - there is another variable: heat.
In hot weather, more people buy ice-creams and they are also more likely to commit crimes.
And it's the same in this study - it's possible something else is causing the improved vaccine response.
In this case, it might be that happier people are more likely to take care of their health, for example eating better and exercising, and this may cause their immune systems to be stronger.
It could be the resulting stronger immune system that's causing that group of people to have more antibodies after a flu jab, not the good mood itself.
And although the researchers tested flu-specific antibodies, they didn't look at what proportion were actually virus-killing.
Amount of antibodies in the blood gives a good indication but not a definitive guarantee that someone might then be better able to fight off flu.
Role of genetics

There may be other factors influencing a vaccine's effectiveness, too.
Some research has suggested vaccines administered in the morning are more effective than those received later in the day.
And researchers at Yale University have found evidence that our genes influence how well we will respond to flu vaccines.
The effectiveness of flu vaccinations varies widely among individuals.
Older people, who are most vulnerable to complications from flu, seem to gain the least benefit from the vaccine.
One of the striking things about the University of Nottingham study is it tested a number of other factors - nutrition, exercise, sleep - and found none of these influenced people's response to the vaccine.
Of the things they tested, only participants' psychological state seemed to predict how well they would respond.
But the study is potentially flawed in that it used the same vaccine in its trial as had been administered in the general population the year before.
This meant the majority of the participants already had some residual immunisation.
Further testing

One of the study's authors, Prof Kavita Vedhara says diet and exercise may have had a greater effect if participants had been given a new strain of vaccination, or it may be that mood really is the dominant factor in predicting how effective a flu jab will be.
But we can't know without further testing.
There is a larger body of research suggesting low mood is linked to poorer response to vaccines, and to poorer health in general.
That feeling depressed suppresses your immune system is fairly well-documented.
An analysis of 13 studies published in 2009 found that people with higher stress levels had a decreased antibody response to the flu vaccine.
But Prof Vedhara says these are not two sides of the same coin, although they are highly correlated.
The effect of a good mood in improving a person's response to vaccines is independent of the effect of a negative mood in lowering vaccination response, she says.
The team involved in this study now plan to conduct clinical trials, to attempt to show whether good moods actually cause flu jabs to work better in older people.
Read more from Reality Check

Follow us on Twitter
The claim: We pay more on debt interest than on NHS pay.
Reality Check verdict: If you use the Office for Budget Responsibility's headline figure for debt interest then we actually spend more on NHS pay.
With nurses demonstrating in Parliament Square against the pay cap this week, Prime Minister Theresa May was asked by Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn about whether public sector workers could be paid more.
She replied by blaming the last Labour government for the amount of debt the country has, saying: "As a result of the decisions the Labour Party took in government we now have to pay more on debt interest than on NHS pay."
Reality Check asked Downing Street for the figures to back this up and were told that in 2016-17 debt interest costs were expected to have been 49.1bn while NHS staff costs the same year were 48.1bn.
Let's look at those figures in turn.
The debt interest costs figure comes from the Office for Budget Responsibility's (OBR) economic and fiscal outlook from the time of the Budget in March.
The tricky thing with this figure is that the OBR comes up with two numbers depending on whether or not you count what's known as the Asset Purchase Facility (APF).
As part of its attempts to stimulate the economy, the Bank of England has bought a large amount of UK government bonds.
The government has to pay interest on those bonds, so it makes interest payments to the Bank of England.
But once a quarter, the Bank of England returns those interest payments to the government.
The OBR's headline figure doesn't count the money which has been returned as part of government spending.
In 2016-17 it was 36.0bn.
The one used by Theresa May ignores the fact the money was returned to government coffers, so totals 49.1bn.
Image copyright EPA

The figure for NHS pay is a surprisingly difficult one to give a definitive answer to.
The number Downing Street gave comes from the Department of Health annual report and accounts.
The figure of 48.1bn is for all permanently employed staff of the departmental group, which means it includes people working full-time for the NHS in England as well as those working for the Department of Health and arm's length bodies such as Public Health England.
It includes employer national insurance contributions and pension contributions.
It does not include anyone working for the NHS in Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland because staff there are paid by the devolved administrations.
It also does not include anyone employed via an agency, on a temporary contract, or most staff working in GP surgeries.
We asked NHS Digital to come up with a figure for only the salaries of NHS England staff and they gave us the remarkably precise figure of 39,450,395,739.60, i.e.
about 39.5bn.
NHS Digital warns that the figure is lower than it should be because it excludes data for two hospital trusts and also does not include maternity pay or sick pay.
As with the Department of Health figures, it also does not include figures for the NHS outside England or for GP practices.
But even this figure is higher than the amount spent on debt interest when the APF is taken into account.
Read more from Reality Check

Follow us on Twitter
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption During one episode, Sarah remembers seeing her hands in 2D

For people living with depersonalisation disorder the world appears unreal, as if through a haze or fog - or even in 2D.
One in 100 people is thought to have the condition, but experts are warning it is not included in any GP training.
"Relationships you know you value deeply lose their essential quality," Sarah tells the BBC's Victoria Derbyshire programme.
"You know you love your family, but you know it academically - rather than feeling it in the normal way."
Sarah is an actress.
She's used to playing roles and projecting emotion.
Yet for long stretches of her own adult life, she herself has been emotionally numb - unable to feel.
This is the result of a little-known mental-health condition called depersonalisation disorder.
Sarah has had three chronic episodes of the disorder.
The first came while studying for her final exams.
It is characterised by a sense of disconnect from the world around you, and your own body, and is believed to start as a defence mechanism - helping people to cope in periods of acute anxiety or trauma by switching off reality.
It can also be triggered by drugs such as cannabis.
Image caption Sarah says, with depersonalisation disorder, familiar places feel like film sets

For those with it, the world can change in an instant.
"It was a sudden flick of a switch.
Things felt really alien and threatening," says Sarah.
"Suddenly your flat or somewhere that is very, very familiar to you will suddenly feel like a film set, and your possessions feel like props."
Others have terrifying out-of-body experiences, feel like their own body parts don't belong to them and even see the world in 2D - as if it were flat.
For Sarah, this is what happened during her second episode.
"I was reading, holding a book, and suddenly my hands looked like a picture of a pair of hands.
"I felt this separation between the physical world and my perception of it."
Find out more

Watch Adam Eley's full film on depersonalisation disorder on the Victoria Derbyshire programme's website.
This isn't, however, a rare disorder.
One in 100 people is estimated to have it as a mental health condition, according to three separate studies.
Experts say it is as widespread as conditions such as obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) and schizophrenia, and it has been a medically recognised disorder for decades.
Some patients, if untreated, can have it for their entire lives.
Yet few medical professionals have heard of it.
One newly qualified doctor - who has the condition - says there was no mention of depersonalisation disorder in either his GP training or at medical school.
He admits to wrongly diagnosing at least two of his own patients in the past, and says he would be "very surprised" if any of his colleagues had heard of the condition.
Sarah says she has seen "possibly up to 20 people over the years who haven't known what I was talking about - community psychiatric nurses, GPs, therapists, counsellors".
Image caption Dr Elaine Hunter runs the only specialist clinic for depersonalisation disorder in the UK

The Royal College of GPs said mental health was a "key part" of its "extensive training curriculum".
Areas of training "including complex mental health problems... are being developed," it added.
The Royal College of Psychiatrists said "we must ensure that knowledge of this condition is improved".
Poor diagnosis rates, however, are only one part of the problem.
Another is access to treatment.
There is only one specialist clinic in the UK, and it has limited resources - seeing fewer than 80 patents a year, compared with the 650,000 people estimated to be living with the condition.
Access to the clinic on the NHS requires funding from the local clinical commissioning group, but even with a diagnosis this can take months or even longer.
After a year of waiting, Sarah decided her only choice was to self-fund.
"I was having panic attacks regularly.
I was really, really scared.
"I felt like I was in crisis," she says.
Turning children away

The specialist clinic - the Depersonalisation Disorder Service at South London and Maudsley NHS Trust - is also limited to over-18s, having been designated an adult-only service.
This is despite the condition often forming in adolescence.
Dr Elaine Hunter, who runs it, is concerned that she is having to turn children and young people away.
"We sometimes get very distressed and upset patients who have a 15-year-old who is terrified and there's not very much we can do."
One patient she has recently seen as an adult developed the condition aged 13, and was unable to leave the house for two years - having 10 or more panic attacks a day as a result of the anxiety depersonalisation disorder caused.
At first she was unable to recognise her own parents.
Dr Hunter hopes in time services for under-18s will become available.
She also wants treatment to be made available to patients locally, by training "depersonalisation disorder leads" at each NHS mental health trust, who can then share their knowledge with others.
She has also developed a form of cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) specifically designed for depersonalisation disorder, which she believes medical professions with a grounding in the talking therapy would be able to learn with training.
Image caption Sarah Ashley "couldn't eat, couldn't sleep" before she began her CBT with Dr Hunter

One of Dr Hunter's patients, Sarah Ashley, a sales manager, says she has noticed a "huge, huge difference" in her mental health, despite being initially sceptical.
"[Before CBT] I'd look down at my hands or parts of my body and feel they're not mine.
I'd look in the mirror and it would be like looking at someone else," she says.
"I couldn't eat, couldn't sleep [weighed] six and a half stone from all the anxiety from it.
"Whereas now, I do get a bit of depersonalisation, but I can deal with it really quickly."
Treatment, then, is available, but currently limited in scope and difficult to access.
Dr Hunter says it should not be the case that people are "finding their symptoms through Google" and having to tell their GP: "This is what I've got", rather than the other way round.
Just over a year ago Lesley and Neal Davison received a phone call telling them their daughter was about to be sectioned.
She'd tried to kill herself.
For years Megan had been keeping a secret.
She had an eating disorder.
But she hid it so well, nobody in her family ever realised.
On 4 August, aged 27, she hanged herself and left a six-page suicide note.
Megan had diabulimia.
The term refers to the combined impact of type 1 diabetes with an eating disorder.
The condition is not yet medically recognised.
"She left us a very detailed note and she felt there was no hope for her, that there was nothing in place to help people with her condition," her mum Lesley tells Newsbeat.
"In the absence of the help she needed, she couldn't see any way of carrying on."
Type 1 diabetes is an irreversible autoimmune disease which requires constant care.
Every time a patient eats carbohydrates they must also inject insulin.
They must check their blood sugar levels frequently.
People with type 1 diabetes need insulin to stay alive.
Diabulimia refers to diabetic people who deliberately take too little insulin in order to lose weight.
Doing this can be incredibly dangerous.
"The one thing that not taking your insulin does, is you lose weight - you have an ideal tool," explains Lesley.
She says that "Megan sometimes looked a bit thin but there was never anything that would indicate anything extreme".
Experts say there are potentially thousands like Megan who are seemingly living a "normal" life but hiding their illness.
The leading type 1 diabetes charity JDRF estimates 60,000 15 to 30-year-olds are living with T1 in the UK.
Professor Khalida Ismail is lead psychiatrist for diabetes at King's Health Partners, London.
She runs the only outpatient clinic in the UK specifically for people with diabulimia.
"You can look quite well and have a normal body size," she tells Newsbeat.
"And yet because you're restricting insulin, you are running very high blood sugars and you are increasing your risk of diabetes complications."
She explains that this can include damage to the eyes, kidneys and nerve endings.
After Megan's death her family found there was an "inner circle" who knew more about her illness, including three friends and her boyfriend of six years.
"Like the loyal boyfriend, I was sworn to secrecy," Andy tells Newsbeat.
In her note Megan talks of her treatment in an eating disorder inpatient unit.
She describes managing her own insulin because "not one member of staff on the ward was even trained to administer insulin let alone understand it".
"They gave me back my insulin because they couldn't figure out the doses.
"It's the equivalent of giving an alcoholic vodka or giving a bulimic a bottle of laxatives."
Her parents want Megan's story to be known to help other families.
"The information they're getting is just wrong for them," says Lesley.
"It might be the best that's available for the moment but it isn't anywhere near good enough."
She adds that Megan "needed something that was specific" to the condition and "not a sort of ad hoc of pieces that didn't really do the job".
DWED (Diabetics With Eating Disorders) campaigns for the omission of insulin for weight loss to be recognised as a mental illness.
Founder Jacqueline Allan says diabulimia is still not viewed in the right way.
"The second you stop taking your insulin you're in the same amount of danger, regardless of your weight."
Prof Ismail agrees and says psychiatrists need to "wake up" to diabulimia.
"The condition is very hidden," she says.
"Diabetes teams don't know how to talk to patients about it.
"Eating disorder teams only see the extreme cases."
She wants diabulimia to be recognised formally.
"Once psychiatrists start talking about it, debating it, awareness will grow."
Megan's dad Neal says they knew so little they would have been in "no-man's land" without the letter.
"I honestly don't know how we would have coped with it."
"She didn't want us upset," adds Lesley.
"And yet you end up devastated because nobody has been able to help her."
Tim Kendall, NHS England's national clinical director for mental health, tells Newsbeat that "people are waking up to it".
"I was involved in producing the NICE guidelines on eating disorders and we devoted a whole section on how you manage people who've got diabetes and an eating disorder.
"We're now disseminating that around the country.
We have been asleep, no doubt, but we are waking up."
NHS England says it's integrating psychological services with physical health, including placing 3,000 new mental health therapists in GP practices.
For more information on diabulimia you can look at these information and support pages.
Find us on Instagram at BBCNewsbeat and follow us on Snapchat, search for bbc_newsbeat
Video

On average in 2016, there were two acid attacks a day.
2017 is now projected to be the year with the highest number of attacks ever recorded in the UK.
Over the past few years there has been a change in the way acid has been used.
No longer just associated with shame or honour attacks, acid is now a weapon used by moped thieves as well as a means of settling gang disputes.
We follow four separate acid attack victims who highlight this growing trend.
Mary Russell, a black woman with dwarfism, set off on a 21-day, 900-mile trip down the Ho Chi Minh trail with five other disabled people.
She imagined it would be a unifying experience, but in fact she felt isolated among people she thought would be more like her.
"What made it for me was the beautiful scenic views," she says.
"How can you be miserable when you're looking at mountains?"
But in fact, for some of the time at least, Russell would feel more isolated and different than she had done before as she filmed for the BBC One programme, Without Limits: Vietnam.
Russell is used to her difference.
She grew up as one of nine children, but the only one with achondroplasia - a common cause of dwarfism - and her skin-colour could also cause issue in 1970s Yorkshire when "awareness just wasn't there".
For the journey through Vietnam, Russell, 48, travelled in a vehicle with Vicky Balch, who lost her leg in the Alton Towers rollercoaster accident and Steve Brown, a Paralympic wheelchair rugby player who's paralysed from the chest down.
Image copyright Mary Russell

Louise Halvey, who has progressive hearing loss, travelled on a motorbike alongside Charlie Lewis, who opted for a right leg amputation after a snowboard accident, and Andy Slade who lost an arm in an industrial accident.
But there was a new kind of difference here - Russell was the only one of the six to have always had a disability rather than having acquired it later in life.
"The group had all gone through something quite traumatic and I had to try to figure out where I fit in with that," she says.
The rest of the group were able to talk together about how they became disabled by accident or illness and how it made them feel but Mary felt left out because she had never had that experience.
"It was hard because they weren't born this way, they lived most of their life mingling with society, and at times I felt like I needed a limb missing so I could feel part of the group."
The team travelled from the north to the south of the country and spent up to seven hours a day in the car, which she describes as "really rough".
As the others bonded over coming to terms with a new impairment, Russell became affected by what she acknowledges as her main disability - depression.
"My mood dipped almost immediately," she says.
The atmosphere in the car soured at times and arguments broke out.
The group were often short on sleep and the travelling could be uncomfortable.
"I've struggled with depression, which nobody really understands because they automatically think it's the dwarfism that holds me back, but at times, mental health is my biggest challenge."
Russell says she identified the slump in her mood early on in the journey when she "felt like I was going out of control".
She became fractious and tearful and with no one to confide in she told the whole group how she felt.
"I didn't want people to think this was how I usually am," she says.
"They said they were completely unaware I felt isolated but were grateful I had spoken and they became more inclusive."
At home in London, Russell uses cycling as a "remedy" for her depression and when the group visited a village they spotted a boy with a bike.
He was persuaded to lend it to her and she free-wheeled down the hill which gave her some relief.
Russell says the group provoked intrigue wherever they went, but she felt she received a "double stare".
"I stood out for sure," she says.
"I have the condition and I'm of colour."
Mary's short stature often prompted laughter from Vietnamese locals which she found overwhelming at times.
"For some reason dwarfism as a disability always seems to be the butt of jokes and when they saw me they wanted to laugh, which is the battle we always have.
"They wouldn't touch me ... but people were fascinated by the others and wanted to touch their prosthetic legs."
But there was an unexpected moment of joy one day which made Russell confront her own judgements.
"I met a guy, a dwarf, when we went shopping.
He was stood outside his shop and at first I walked on by.
"For a moment I slipped into 'old Mary' where I wasn't comfortable with seeing someone like myself, but I made myself go back and say 'hello' to him.
Image copyright Mary Russell

"I immediately connected with him, we shook hands and hugged.
It was the highlight of my trip."
The group all completed the journey, weary but fulfilled.
Russell remains close to Halvey and Slade who made her see her own prejudices.
"They helped me and gave me support," she says.
"They're both bikers so I didn't think I'd get on with them, but we hit it off and it made me realise you really can't judge anyone."
Russell has taken part in reality TV before - in 2014 she appeared on the disability dating show, The Undateables.
The positive response she got from that boosted her confidence and she was signed to model agency, Models of Diversity, which has led to numerous photo-shoots and a fashion runway in Japan.
Image copyright Mary Russell

"From The Undateables onwards I started to find out things about myself - positive and negative," she says.
"Even if it upsets me I'm emptying out all the hurt and developing as a person."
Though the Vietnam trip brought unwanted attention to her differences, Russell says it has made her accept herself in a new way.
"It made me realise that my limbs might be shorter, but they're functional and I can use them and should be grateful.
"I want to go to more places where there are less people like me.
Everyone needs to see that this is what's in the world."
Mary Russell's roadtrip story is told on Without Limits: Vietnam.
The second episode will be broadcast Thursday 21 September at 20:00 on BBC One, and will be available to watch via BBC iPlayer for 30 days afterwards.
For more Disability News, follow BBC Ouch on Twitter and Facebook, and subscribe to the weekly podcast.
Image copyright Getty Images

NHS bosses are warning we should be braced for a bad flu season.
They cite the experience of Australia and New Zealand, which have just gone through their winters.
What happens there, they say, tends to be a good pointer to how flu spreads in the UK.
How bad has it been in Australia and New Zealand?
They've certainly had their worst flu season for a number of years.
Like the UK, the past few winters have seen pretty low levels of flu circulating.
But this winter it has been different.
Figures up to the end of August - not even the end of their winter - suggest there was nearly double the number of cases of flu than the average over the past five winters.
Reports have emerged of hospitals struggling, which is why NHS England chief executive Simon Stevens raised the alarm in a speech on Tuesday.
Last year, the NHS went through its worst winter in a generation.
And already hospital bosses have warned this winter could be worse given long waiting times and bed shortages over the summer.
Mr Stevens is concerned flu could tip the health service over the edge as well as posing a threat to vulnerable groups, such as the elderly.
Image copyright Thinkstock

How have people been affected?
There is nothing particularly special about this flu - just that there is lots of it around.
The symptoms include a high temperature, tiredness, weakness, general aches and pains and a dry, chesty cough.
High-risk groups, such older people, pregnant women and those who have long-term medical conditions or a weakened immune system, are at risk of complications.
The most common of which are chest infections.
Is the UK guaranteed to be hit?
Every winter there are a few strains circulating.
But one normally becomes dominant.
In Australia and New Zealand that was the H3N2 strain.
Will the same happen here?
It's not a given - and there's certainly some debate about how closely our winters match the pattern elsewhere.
But if it does, the good news is that the early indications are that the vaccine that has been produced this year is pretty effective against that strain.
That's not always the case.
Last year the vaccine was less effective among the elderly than other groups.
Image copyright jandrielombard/ Thinkstock

How do I get the vaccine?
You can get the flu jab free on the NHS if you are aged over 65, pregnant or have an underlying health condition which puts you at risk of serious complications from flu.
Children aged six months to two years at risk of flu are also entitled to a free flu jab.
A flu nasal spray is available free to three-year-olds and some children at primary school.
Front-line health and social care workers are also eligible to receive the flu vaccine.
GP surgeries will be able to give the jab and some local pharmacies may be able to as well.
Is there a way I can get the jab if I'm not eligible?
If you want to protect yourself against flu and you're not in one of the groups above, you can buy the flu jab from high street pharmacies.
Very few people are unable to have the jab, but you should avoid it if you have had a serious allergic reaction to it before.
If I had the flu jab last year, do I need it again?
Flu strains often change and so protection given by the flu vaccine gradually decreases over time.
That's why new flu jabs are produced each year and why vulnerable adults and children are advised to have it every year too.
Image copyright Supplied Image caption These photos of Alison Morton were taken a few hours apart.
Fibromyalgia is an invisible illness, meaning that at times it is not immediately apparent

Alison Morton was 25 years old when she started experiencing pain in her muscles and joints.
Doctors removed her gall bladder - but after symptoms didn't improve, she was eventually diagnosed with fibromyalgia, a widespread condition that affects the musculoskeletal system.
Four years on, it leaves her with "profound fatigue" and constant pain.
"When you get diagnosed, you think that there will be something that can be done," she says.
"But unfortunately there's no cure.
"It literally takes over my body and I can't control it.
I'm just out of it."
People with the illness say it feels like their muscles are pulled or overworked.
Their muscles can twitch and burn.
Invisible illness

Alison experiences "brain fog", struggling to remember names, directions and "getting very confused a lot of the time".
It prevents her from working.
She says one of the biggest difficulties is that it is an invisible illness and not immediately apparent.
"You're 25, you look like a normal 25-year-old woman, but inside there's a lot going on.
"Your central nervous system is all affected, but it's hard to see that, and that's hard to explain."
This means it can take some people a long time to be diagnosed.
"There are still a lot of GPs that don't believe it's a real condition," Alison says.
This is despite some estimates suggesting nearly one in 20 people may have the condition to some degree.
Image copyright Supplied Image caption Alison has learned to live in constant pain

After she was diagnosed, Alison's rheumatologist referred her to Newcastle Pain Management.
"They completely changed my life," she says, teaching her ways to prepare mentally to be in pain for the rest of her life.
"There's a lot of grieving to do - lots of little things can bring it up, when you realise you can't do something," she says.
She worked with a physiologist and a pain psychologist.
"It's all about pain management, making the pain less so you can still have a fulfilling life," Alison says.
For Alison, this means yoga stretches, medication and a machine that stimulates her nerves with electricity.
"Mindfulness has really helped me to deal with the emotions that come up when you have to deal with persistent pain."
Managing pain

She also writes lists to cope with her memory loss.
"Everyone reacts differently to different pain management techniques.
For example, exercise might work for some but not for others," she says.
"So, it's hard to break down those perceptions as well."
Despite the strategies, Alison's pain is still constant and can flare up when triggered by stress or doing too much.
She says she could not have got through it without the help of her loved ones.
"My family has been so supportive, especially my dad.
I've been very lucky in that sense."
Telling her story has also helped.
She has recently moved to Darlington with her boyfriend and chairs Newcastle's fibromyalgia awareness group.
She says: "Compared to when I first got diagnosed, I feel now I am able to live a much more fulfilled life."
For more information visit: http://www.fmauk.org/
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Jennifer, Kirsty, Kate and Amie (from left) drink mocktails and an alcohol-free beer

Amie used to drink 30 pints in a weekend to "keep up with the boys".
"I could neck three bottles of wine and not think about it," said the 38-year-old from Derbyshire.
Her drinking was so extreme that she contemplated suicide: "I thought well, stuff's got to change."
For Jennifer, it caused her relationship with her partner to break down: "I was like a different person when I was drinking - I had blackouts," she said.
A report last year found women are now almost on a par with men when it comes to problematic drinking.
Stealth drinking

Both Amie and Jennifer had had enough of hangovers - and decided to give up alcohol.
They are doing it with the help of one programme designed to help people stop drinking called One Year No Beer, a scheme people pay to join which gives them strategies to help them to go alcohol-free.
One tactic is known as stealth drinking, where people pretend their non-alcoholic drink is alcohol, for example by getting a non-alcoholic beer in a pint glass topped up with lemonade.
One Year No Beer has seen a 10-fold increase in membership this year alone.
The alcohol-free drinks market is booming too.
In only five years, the amount of low or alcohol-free beer sold in the UK has risen by nearly 50%.
And the world's first alcohol-free spirit Seedlip launched 21 months ago.
In 12 months, it experienced a 1,000% rise in sales.
There are now clubs for people who want to get together without alcohol and the UK's first alcohol-free drinking festival was held in London last month.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The alcohol-free drinks market is booming as increasing numbers choose to give up alcohol

The clubs and the festival want to cater for the increasing number of Britons choosing to give up drink.
A report by the Office for National Statistics in May found that just under 60% of those surveyed had had an alcoholic drink in the past week - the lowest rate since the survey began in 2005.
Another survey from 2015 found that one in four British people were thinking of cutting down their drinking or at least trying to reduce it.
Still, many who have made the change complain that there are few options in traditional pubs other than sugary soft drinks.
Prof Luc Bovens, an expert in public health at London School of Economics, has made a number of recommendations to British pubs aimed at "nudging" people away from alcohol.
"The road to hangovers is often paved with good intentions, but by tinkering with the British pub's choice architecture we may be able to help some people," he wrote.
He suggested that pubs provide a no-alcohol or low-alcohol beer on tap and added: "For many people, there is a distinct feeling of alienation in toasting proper pints with a sad little bottle."
'Absolute weirdo'

A spokesman for the British Beer & Pub Association said: "No-alcohol beers are bottled because the sales volume typically wouldn't support a keg option.
"Our members have a good track record.
Within the beer category, we've seen brewers remove 1.3 billion units from the market by the drinks industry as part of the Public Health Responsibility Deal, through producing low strength, or no strength options and reducing the strength of existing products."
Jennifer said one of the biggest challenges comes from friends: "It's actually seen as bad or weird not drinking.
It's like you're a minority, people look at you like you're an absolute weirdo."
But after 90 days of not drinking, her relationship with her partner is back on track and her life has improved: "Getting up on a Monday is not a problem.
I can bounce out of bed."
Meanwhile for Amie, who has been alcohol-free for 16 months, the benefits have been vast: "I lost four stone.
I train six days a week.
And everything I want to do, I can go and do."
Image copyright Dr Atul Budukh/TMC Hospital Image caption For the study, health workers collected cloth pads used during menstruation, from villagers

Menstruation is considered a taboo to even speak about in India, so imagine the reaction to the idea of collecting women's used menstrual pads.
But that is exactly what health workers did in villages in the West Indian state of Maharashtra - in order to diagnose the possibility of cervical cancer.
More than a quarter of the world's cervical cancer patients are from India.
Yet there are many reasons why women don't go for cervical screening - a lack of adequate infrastructure and facilities in rural areas as well as burdening costs, coupled with unease at undergoing the invasive examination.
"Rural women are shy, fear the test and consider it unnecessary," said researchers writing in the European Journal of Cancer Prevention.
More than 90% of Indian rural women use homemade cloth as a menstrual pad, as opposed to commercial sanitary products.
Researchers from the Tata Memorial Centre and National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health in India found that by analysing these used menstrual pads, they could detect the presence of human papilloma virus (HPV), which can cause cervical cancer.
"It is an easy and convenient way," Dr Atul Budukh, lead researcher from the centre, told the BBC.
"The major roadblock to large scale implementation of the cervical cancer screening programme is the low participation by the women at risk."
As a result, doctors say that most cervical cancer patients are only diagnosed at an advanced metastatic stage or when attending hospital for any other medical check-up.
Deep freeze DNA

For the research, more than 500 women aged between 30 and 50 with no history of any cancer, who were physically and mentally fit and menstruating regularly, provided their pads for analysis during the two-year research period.
These women were asked to store the menstrual cloth on the first day of their periods in a simple ziplock bag and hand it to the local health worker.
The collected menstrual cloth was then stored at -20C and sent to the diagnostic centre in a dry ice container for HPV screening.
Image copyright Dr Atul Budukh/TMC hospital Image caption Indian scientists process samples of the pads in the lab

Genomic DNA was then extracted from dried menstrual blood, amplified and studied using polymerase chain reaction - a technique used in molecular biology.
Twenty-four women tested positive for HPV and were identified for further treatment, said Dr Bhuduk.
This included a colposcopy - a simple procedure used to look at the cervix, the lower part of the womb at the top of the vagina.
The procedure can confirm whether cells in the cervix are abnormal and require treatment.
The researchers also documented the women's socio-demographic and reproductive history, their bathroom and toilet facilities and the type of menstrual device used.
Genital hygiene

The study found an urgent need for intensive health education on genital hygiene.
According to the Census of India 2011, more than 41% of the households do not have bathrooms and of those that do, 16% of the rooms did not have a roof.
Dr Budukh said: "Because of the poor conditions of the bathroom or lack of proper toilet facilities, women in rural areas do not have the privacy to wash their genitals."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Very few women in rural India use commercial sanitary products

Poor genital hygiene has been found to be an important factor for the development of dysplasia and cervical cancer, and the use of pads made from reused cloth increases that risk, studies have shown.
Collecting the menstrual cloth was a real challenge, the researchers said, partly because of the myths and superstitions surrounding menstruation among the rural population in India.
For example, menstruating women are generally barred from entering the kitchen, visiting temples and attending religious gatherings.
Myths and superstition

This made it difficult for health workers to collect the pads, especially in the evenings, because it is seen as a bad omen for menstruating women to come out after sunset.
Intensive health education programmes on cervical cancer and how to prevent it were organised for village leaders, social workers and family members of the participants.
They were also informed of the myths surrounding menstruation.
There were some limitations to the study - the transporting of the samples was costly and researchers pointed out that development of a simple mechanism of sending the pads for testing by mail would be more efficient than freezer storage.
Only menstruating women can benefit from this screening method, they also noted.
Dr Budukh and his team say that with an improved system for collecting and despatching menstrual pads for testing and good health education, this could become an effective cervical cancer screening tool.
If you're diabetic, checking your blood sugar level is part of the fabric of life.
But one designer with the condition went a step further and wove her blood results into the fabric she designs.
Image copyright Melanie Hyams

Poppy Nash was diagnosed with Type 1 Diabetes aged six which meant her body was no longer able to produce insulin.
"It was horrible and scary," she says, as she recalled the day her GP sent her straight to A&E.
"I remember Mum crying in the hospital.
That's when I realised there was something wrong."
Nash was diagnosed and discharged with a new life-changing routine which revolved around injections and measuring blood-sugar levels multiple times a day, a demanding cycle kept up by her mum for many years until she was old enough to take responsibility for her own health.
When she was hospitalised at 18, after she accidentally injected herself with double the amount of insulin she needed, the true gravitas of the condition hit her.
"That was my wake-up call," she says.
"It was like a second diagnosis and I suddenly realised 'I'm in charge of this stuff that essentially can kill me'."
It gave Nash a new outlook when she left home for Glasgow School of Art to study Communication Design where she "pushed" her way into the textiles department to learn how to screen print.
Image copyright Melanie Hyams

Asked to create a body of work on a subject she cared about, Nash says she hit a wall as the "voice" of diabetes became "too loud" and drowned out her creativity.
"I got so stressed out and my diabetes control went badly," she says.
"Diabetes was the thing that made me stop doing my project work so I turned the situation on its head, then it made sense."
Nash went back to her blood sugar monitor and the ream of data it automatically stores which reveals how her body reacts to life - the good and bad.
She took the numbers, sometimes elaborated on them or added colour, then printed them onto fabric, before she turned that fabric into wearable artwork and felt she was literally weaving her blood into clothes.
"When you do research for a project you have to really believe in what you're doing and this [diabetes] is the only subject that I really cared about," she says.
"It makes me weirdly happy because I feel I'm cheating something, but they're also real numbers and that's why it's so scary."
Image copyright Melanie Hyams

Although Nash loves to focus on her work, she says it can bring on negative thoughts if she dwells on the reality of the figures and the impact the condition can have on her life.
"I was looking at these articles of people dying in their sleep from diabetes and I thought 'actually I can't do this'.
When that happens Nash says she has to put her work to one side for the day.
She says "it's scary" but believes the project is ultimately good for her because it makes her confront the reality of what can happen if she doesn't look after herself.
When she's being creative in the studio Nash tries to look at her blood sugar levels artistically rather than medically.
The repetitive nature of writing out the numbers can be a "good therapy", she says, but she has to be careful not to get overwhelmed and focus only on the "bad numbers".
According to Diabetes UK, healthy blood sugar levels vary between each person but tend to be between four and nine, depending on when they have eaten - some of Nash's readings, which she has printed on her fabric, reach as high as 18.
Image copyright Poppy Nash

Nash's latest commission is to design the interior of a house for the National Disability Arts Collection and Archive but she has also started to experiment with text to make sense of the mass of information she is meant to know about the condition.
She has started to collect news articles which reveal the harsh realities of diabetes, and use them to create patchwork quilts.
"I'll write out a whole article and then cut it up.
I'll use fragments on some patchwork - one is about diabetes burnout - because it's so impersonal.
It's all about people not choosing a healthy lifestyle. "
Burnout can arise years after a diagnosis when, out of frustration, some people with diabetes get sick of the diet and testing regime and give up or lapse.
They may disregard their blood sugar level management or switch back to unhealthy eating habits.
Alongside her own artwork Nash works as a pattern drafter and cutter and recently made costumes for a band.
Image copyright NDACA

Her current focus is on textiles - fabrics, clothing and one-off pieces for exhibitions - but she hopes one day there might be a clothing collection.
"I would love people to wear them," she says, "They'd be telling the story of diabetes and they wouldn't even know."
Nash has had to overcome a lack of confidence in the worth of her artwork and whether it's relevant to non-diabetics.
"I think about diabetes all the time," she says.
"I worry that if I think I talk about it all the time I feel self-indulgent.
But it's not only diabetics who like it and it opens up conversations."
Even with the best management, hypos - when blood sugar gets too low - can occur regularly and Nash estimates she has two a week.
"It's like tripping out," she says.
"You have no idea what's going on.
My boyfriend has been talking to me and I just didn't understand what he was saying.
I could repeat the words, but I didn't understand them.
Image copyright Poppy Nash

"If there was a rulebook on how hypos can be caused it would be longer than Harry Potter," she says.
Nash will continue to monitor her blood sugar levels indefinitely but it will also continue to provide her with a well of creative possibilities.
"This is a nice platform, because I can turn something so rubbish into something that I like, it makes it kind of amusing.
"Diabetes as a subject can go on and on, so long as people want to listen."
If you have been affected by anything in this article you can visit Diabetes UK for further information about the condition.
For more Disability News, follow BBC Ouch on Twitter and Facebook, and subscribe to the weekly podcast.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) released an alarming report on Tuesday indicating that 2016 had the highest number of sexually transmitted diseases ever recorded.
More than 2 million cases of chlamydia, gonorrhea and syphilis were reported, with the impact affecting a growing number of populations.
Increases in STDs are a clear warning of a growing threat, Jonathan Mermin, director of CDCs National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD and TB Prevention, said in a news release.
STDs are a persistent enemy, growing in number, and outpacing our ability to respond.
CTE BREAKTHROUGH: BIOMARKER MAY INDICATE DISEASE IN LIVING PATIENTS

Notably, chlamydia accounted for 1.6 million of the reported cases, while 470,000 were gonorrhea and 28,000 cases were primary and secondary syphilis.
While all three can be cured with antibiotics, 600 cases of congenital syphilis resulted in more than 40 deaths and severe health complications among newborns.
Every baby born with syphilis represents a tragic systems failure, Gail Bolan, director of CDCs Division of STD Prevention, said in the news release.
All it takes is a simple STD test and antibiotic treatment to prevent this enormous heartache and help assure a healthy start for the next generation of Americans.
NURSE HELPS DELIVER BABY AFTER WOMAN GOES INTO LABOR AT TARGET

While both men and women saw an increase in gonorrhea cases, researchers saw the greatest increase among males, particular gay, bisexual and other men who have sex with men.
The CDC called the trend alarming in light of the growing threat of drug resistant strains of gonorrhea.
As a result, the CDC is calling for an increase in efforts to strengthen the congenital syphilis response and improved diagnosis and treatment of pregnant women, as well as help for rapid testing for drug-resistant gonorrhea on the state and local levels.
Officials also called on health care providers to incorporate STD screening and testing into standard practice, especially for pregnant women and men who have sex with other men.
Researchers at Boston University School of Medicine said theyve identified a key biomarker that may make it possible to diagnose chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) in living patients.
Previously, researchers have only been able to confirm a CTE diagnosis by studying the brains of deceased patients.
The findings in this study are the early steps toward identifying CTE during life, Dr. Ann McKee, director of the CTE Center at Boston University, said in a statement.
Once we can successfully diagnose CTE in living individuals, we will be much closer to discovering treatments for those who suffer from it.
CTE FOUND IN BRAINS OF 110 OUT OF 111 DECEASED NFLERS

In the study, published Tuesday in the journal PLOS One, researchers from BU teamed up with the VA Boston Healthcare System to examine the brains of 23 former football players diagnosed with CTE, 50 non-athletes diagnosed with Alzheimers disease, and 18 non-athlete controls.
They discovered elevated levels of CCL11 protein in the group of ex-players, with those who played the longest containing the highest amounts.
The researchers also noted that recent studies have shown CCL11 and related molecules play a role in neuroinflammation, as well as neurodegeneration.
They were then able to differentiate between patients diagnosed with Alzheimers, CTE and ALS based on the levels of CCL11.
Knowing that someone has this disease opposed to other diseases allows us to treat them more effectively, Dr. Jonathan Cherry said, according to Boston 25 News.
Researchers acknowledged that more studies on CCL11 and CTE must be conducted on a larger scale, partly to determine whether higher levels indicate advancement of the disease and if it correlates to symptom severity.
AARON HERNANDEZ HAD 'SEVERE' CTE, LAWYER SAYS

The development comes months after McKees team discovered traces of CTE in 110 out of 111 brains of deceased former NFL players.
CTE has been linked with repeated head trauma and is a concern among many for professional athletes as well as combat veterans.
More than 30 former NFL players have pledged to donate their brain to science after death, including Hall of Fame defensive tackle Warren Sapp, Pro Bowl performers Randy Cross, Keith Sims and Shawn Springs.
Almost 1,500 former athletes and military veterans have pledged to do so since 2008.
A labor and delivery nurse quickly switched from leisurely shopper to on-duty medic when a woman suddenly went into labor inside the Target store she was visiting.
Lisa Bozeman said she overheard a pregnant woman mention she was going to pick up some things before heading to the hospital because her contractions were getting stronger, Fox 5 Atlanta reported.
Bozeman convinced the woman, Tanya St. Preux, to talk to her daughter, Caris Lockwood, who is a nurse at Piedmont Atlanta Hospital.
Lockwood had St. Preuxs friend bring the car to the entrance and as they were escorting St. Preux out of the store, her water broke.
Lockwood instructed her sister to go back inside the store and find sterile gloves and towels.
BABY BORN WITH INCREDIBLE FULL HEAD OF HAIR

Moments later, Lockwood helped St. Preux deliver a 7-pound, 10-ounce baby boy, Fox 5 Atlanta reported.
Caris was God-sent and amazing, St. Preux told the news outlet.
She was sweet and caring and exceeded everyones expectations.
She went way over far and beyond.
Lockwood cut the umbilical cord after paramedics arrived and took St. Preux and her son to the hospital.
CANCER SURVIVOR BECOMES NURSE AT HOSPITAL THAT TREATED HER

We feel so blessed to have been a part of this, Bozeman told Fox 5 Atlanta.
We have visited the family at the hospital and their home, and plan to have a lifetime of friendship with them.
We love that they are calling us family!
Piedmont Healthcare shared a photo of the two on their Facebook page, where it has received more than 5,900 reactions and over 280 shares.
Throughout your life, youve probably heard an aging person joke about their stiffening joints.
Im just getting old, they'll say.
To an extent, there is truth to that remark.
Even so, as you age, realize that joint pain is still not a normal part of life.
You should not dismiss it since painful joints may mean the onset of arthritis.
In addition, by catching the problem early, you could save yourself a lot of unnecessary pain.
In the United States, over 50 million people suffer from arthritis, according to the CDC.
A huge number of these60 percentare between the working ages of 18 and 64.
RECOGNIZING AND TREATING HYPERPARATHYROIDISM

Many sufferers find difficulty in performing essential job tasks, and in some cases, their condition keeps them from working at all.
Aside from the economic effects, arthritis can also prevent people from getting adequate exercise and can significantly reduce the quality of life.
Which Type of Arthritis?
To deal with arthritis properly, you should first work with your doctor to find out which type you or your loved one has.
While there are over 100 different types possible, most Americans suffer from only a few.
Rheumatoid Arthritis

According to the Arthritis Foundation, over 1 million Americans suffer from rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
This condition is actually an autoimmune response, meaning that the immune system is attacking the joints or parts of the body that affect the joints.
As the immune system attacks, the joints get damaged and inflamed, causing an array of problems for the sufferer.
DAD DIES AFTER GETTING ATTACKED BY BEES IN YARD

Symptoms include pain and stiffness in major joints like the hands or legs, swelling that lasts for hours, fatigue, appetite and weight loss or joints that feel warm to the touch.
The pain is usually severe and can last all day for some people.
If youre experiencing this type of joint pain, you should see a doctor immediately.
Because of the immune response, RA can affect other vital organs in the body.
Osteoarthritis

Osteoarthritis (OA) is a highly common type of arthritis, so common that most people are referring to OA when they talk about arthritis in general.
According to the CDC, nearly 30 million adults are suffering from this condition in the U.S.

How does OA happen?
It occurs when a joint in the body begins breaking down because of wear and tear, often due to aging, injuries or obesity.
Usually, people get OA in their knees, hips and hands, and the condition happens over time as the cartilage wears down.
Symptoms include stiffness in the morning or after long rests, aching pain, pain when walking, bending or gripping objects, swelling and a joint that is warm to the touch.
Because symptoms worsen slowly, you may notice the pain come and go.
Gout

Another common type of arthritis is gout.
This type usually affects men and those who are obese and is caused by an increase in uric acid in the body.
Unlike other arthritis types, gout will flare up for a period and then go into remission for months before another flare-up again.
If a person gets regular flare-ups, they may eventually find the gout worsening into gouty arthritis.
Symptoms include intense pain, redness, swelling and heat around the joint.
Also, it usually affects one joint at a time and occurs in weight-bearing areas like the big toe, ankle or knee.
Juvenile Arthritis

Juvenile arthritis (JA) is actually an umbrella term that refers to arthritis in children under 16.
JA is usually caused by an autoimmune response, although experts cannot find a clear cause.
Different types of JA can affect a childs entire body or specific areas like the tendons.
NEW REPORT FINDS LIFESTYLE CHANGES LOWER CANCER RISK

Typical symptoms that parents should watch for are stiffness, swelling and tenderness, rash, limping, eye redness and vision problems, irritability and a persistent fever.
Psoriatic Arthritis

Finally, many patients are suffering from psoriatic arthritis.
According to the National Psoriasis Foundation, 30 percent of all those affected by the skin condition will also suffer from psoriatic arthritis.
Those affected usually get psoriasis first, a skin condition that causes scaly, raised, red and white patches of inflamed skin around the body.
This condition can then lead to inflammation in the joints, causing arthritis.
Symptoms include swollen joints, especially the fingers and toes, discolored fingernails, swelling and sometimes back pain.
In any of these cases, those suffering with arthritis should follow a few lifestyle steps outlined by the CDC.
These steps will help manage the arthritis and keep up healthy motivation.
Find support programs.
Maintain moderate exercise at least 5 days per week.
Manage a healthy weight.
Check in with your doctor about symptoms and treatment.
Arthritis affects millions of Americans, hampering movement and quality of life as the condition worsens.
By understanding your type of arthritis fully and getting support, you can succeed in managing this often crippling condition.
If you are experiencing regular joint pain, talk to your doctor right away.
This article first appeared on AskDrManny.com.
Delta Children has issued a recall for 28,000 of its J is for Jeep brand cross-country all-terrain jogging strollers over concerns that they can break and possibly injure children.
At least four incidents involving the strollers leg bracket breaking have been reported, with one resulting in cuts and bruising to a child.
The impacted products were sold at stores nationwide between August 2015 and August 2016 for a retail price between $130 and $160, according to a post on the Consumer Product Safety Commission website.
NEW PILOT PROGRAM PUTS NURSES IN THE 911 RESPONSE CHAIR

The recall affects products with a model and lot number of:

Model Number Color Lot Number(s) 11988-835 Orange inside/Green outside and Black CH15083, CH15084, CH15085, CH15086, CH15087, CH15088, CH15089, CH15095, CH15123, CH15124, CH15125, CH15126, CH15127, CH15128, CH15157, CH15158, CH15173, CH15174, CH15185, CH15186, CH16045, CH16046, CH16047, CH16048, CH16052, CH16053, CH16054, CH16055, CH16056, CH16074, CH16084, CH16085, CH16086, CH16087, CH16088, CH16089, CH16090, CH16091, CH16092, CH16093, CH16094, CH16095, CH16096, CH16097, CH16098, CH16099 11988-340 Green and Black CH15203, CH15217 11988-436 Blue and Black CH15143 11988-656 Pink and Black CH15144 11988-838 Orange and Black CH15145 11988-0261 Grey and Black CH16025 11998-0251 Grey and Black CH16026 11998-314 Green and Black CH15165, CH16006 11998-439 Blue and Black CH15055, CH15057, CH15058, CH15059, CH15060, CH15061, CH15063, CH15064, CH15065, CH15139, CH15140, CH15150, CH15159 11998-678 Pink and Black CH15166, CH16007 11998-850 Orange outside/Grey inside and Black CH15211, CH15212, CH15213, CH15214, CH15215, , CH16024, CH16044

Consumers with additional questions are instructed to call Delta at 800-377-3777 from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
ET Monday through Friday, or email the company at recall@deltachildren.com.
More information can be found at www.deltachildren.com.
Family and friends are mourning the loss of a Massachusetts father who died of what is believed to be a heart attack after he was swarmed by bees while blowing leaves from his lawn.
Eric Dahl, 48, was said to be in excellent health and had no prior incidents involving bees, his wife, Alison, told The Sun Chronicle.
She told the news outlet that the pair had gone for a six-mile run on Saturday before Dahl began yardwork at their Foxborough home.
Dahl was then attacked by a swarm of bees, potentially triggering a shock reaction, and was rushed to Norwood Hospital where he later died.
WEST NILE DEATH TOLL HITS 7 IN LA COUNTY, OFFICIALS SAY

Foxborough Fire Chief Roger Hatfield told The Sun Chronicle that three paramedics were on the ambulance that transported Dahl to the hospital, but he did not disclose the nature of the emergency.
Our hearts and prayers go out to the entire family, Hatfield told the news outlet.
In addition to Alison, Dahl is survived by his 15-year-old daughter Emma, and 12-year-old daughter Casey.
He was a wonderful son and husband and he was a wonderful father, Carolyn Romsey, Dahls mother-in-law, told The Sun Chronicle.
A 24-year-old Georgia woman who overcame cancer twice in her life has fulfilled her dream of becoming a nurse at the hospital where she received treatment.
On Sept. 18, Montana Brown began her career at Childrens Healthcare of Atlanta as a pediatric nurse.
I just want to take a minute to say thank you to everyone who called and texted me today, Brown, who was diagnosed with cancer first at age 2, and again at 15, wrote in a Sept. 18 Facebook post.
As some of you may not know, today was my first official day at CHOA.
Every time someone said Welcome to Childrens!
or I looked down at my badge and saw that CHOA logo, it brought tears to my eyes.
NEW PILOT PROGRAM PUTS NURSES IN 911 RESPONSE CHAIR

In a show of support for their former patient-turned staffer, the hospital shared a similar post of Brown on its own Facebook page, Fox 5 Atlanta reported.
The hospital's post noted that Brown began her career at Aflac Cancer & Blood Disorders Center during Childhood Cancer Awareness Month.
Im so overwhelmed with this amazing life that God has chosen to give me, Brown posted on her own page.
Never in a million years did I think that at age 24 I would have achieved my biggest and wildest dream  to work at the hospital I was treated at as a child/teenager.
Its amazing and crazy and awesome and Im SO excited to work for such an inspirational organization!!
Browns post received 160 reactions from friends and relatives cheering her on, while the hospitals Sept. 24 mention received more than 5,800 and 280 shares.
A hospital patient who a Utah nurse said she was protecting when she refused to allow police to draw his blood has died.
William Gray, a commercial truck driver and reserve police officer, died late Monday night of the injuries he suffered when a fiery July 26 crash left him with burns over nearly half his body, University of Utah Health spokeswoman Suzanne Winchester said.
Gray was unconscious at the Salt Lake City hospital when police detective Jeff Payne asked to draw his blood hours after the crash.
Nurse Alex Wubbels refused because hospital policy required a warrant or patient consent.
Payne handcuffed her and dragged her outside.
DAD DIES AFTER GETTING ATTACKED BY BEES IN YARD

Gray was hauling a load of sand in northern Utah when a pickup truck speeding away from police crossed the center line and hit his truck head-on, causing an explosion.
State police had been trying to pull over the pickup driver after several people called 911 to report he was driving recklessly.
Though Gray was not suspected of wrongdoing, the pickup driver, Marcos Torres, 26, died in the crash and Utah police routinely collect such evidence from everyone involved in fatal crashes.
Dramatic video of Wubbels' arrest caught widespread attention online amid national scrutiny of police use of force.
Payne and the supervisor who backed him, Lt. James Tracy, were placed on leave amid internal and criminal investigations.
Salt Lake City police apologized and Chief Mike Brown is now considering possible discipline.
The officers' union has defended Payne and Tracy, saying they have unfairly been made into pariahs.
NURSE HELPS DELIVER BABY AFTER WOMAN GOES INTO LABOR AT TARGET

Gray, 43, served with police in the southeastern Idaho city of Rigby.
Chief Sam Tower said he was dedicated to the community of about 4,000 people and plowed snow from a sidewalk last winter so neighborhood kids wouldn't have to walk in the street.
"Bill was truly the best of mankind," Rigby police said in a Facebook post.
"Always willing to help, always willing to go the extra mile.
Bill was a big man, with a bigger heart.
Everything about him was generous and kind."
Tower previously thanked Wubbels for her efforts to protect Gray's rights and prevent his blood from being drawn.
Los Angeles County health officials launched a new campaign in an effort to boost awareness for West Nile virus, which has claimed seven lives in the area so far this year.
The campaign, "It's Not Just a Bite," is meant to educate people about the virus' potentially deadly implications.
The disease in transferred to humans through mosquito bite, but many infected individuals rarely experience symptoms.
However, the virus does have the potential to cause paralysis and permanent brain damage.
Infection is especially dangerous for people over the age of 50 or for those with compromised immune systems.
GRANDMOTHER WHO DIED OF WEST NILE DIDN'T KNOW SHE GOT BIT, FAMILY SAYS

The L.A. County health department has already reported 98 cases of the mosquito-borne illness, according to the LA Times.
Of those cases, 70 percent were considered very serious, with infected individuals suffering from encephalitis or meningitis  a swelling of the brain or lining of the brain  and paralysis.
Officials warned that there are likely many more unreported cases of infected individuals who have not shown symptoms.
Health experts encourage residents to take precaution by wearing insect repellent and avoiding stagnant water, which can breed mosquitos.
Cases of West Nile Virus have also been reported in San Gabriel Valley, Antelope Valley, the Pomona area, Torrance, the San Fernando Valley, Glendale and Los Feliz.
Nurses in Las Vegas are stepping out of the hospital room and into the fire and rescue dispatch center.
In a pilot program that was started in July, eight nurses are now fielding calls from would-be patients in Las Vegas who dont have a serious medical emergency.
Here, you ask them a bunch of questions to figure out if this is life or death, what resources can we use to you and where we can get you the best help, Katie Chapp, one of the on-call nurses, told Fox News.
With tight budgets and limited staff, the program comes as a much-needed relief for overburdened departments that may not want to deploy an ambulance or EMTs in situations that dont necessarily require it.
WEST NILE DEATH TOLL HITS 7 IN LA COUNTY, OFFICIALS SAY

A green bulb lights up above nurses at their stations indicating they are ready to take a call.
Callers that are deemed non-essential and not in life threatening situations are transferred for the nurses to take through a color-coded computer system.
The nurses then provide guidance and advice on how best to go about handling a bevy of different situations.
For example, Chapp described a call in which a patient had a medical condition that needed treatment, but didnt necessarily require a full out response from a team at dispatch.
I had a patient that called in and she was just worried about a condition that she has, wasnt life or death, but it needed to be seen.
She didnt want to take an ambulance, she didnt have the means or money for thatshe was very happy with our care," Chapp said.
One of the ways nurses bypass deploying ambulance rides is by requesting Lyft drivers for callers.
Instead of the lights and sirens coming to assist a patient where costs can add up, the nurses call rideshare companies to take patients to the hospital.
The method significantly reduces the patient's medical bills.
The nurses then follow up with the drivers to make sure everything was handled appropriately.
The program serves as a way to address patients with non-emergency medical conditions who have come to rely too heavily on the 911 system for receiving their health care.
COFFEE SOLD IN CALIFORNIA COULD CARRY CANCER WARNING LABELS

Communities have come to depend on the 911 system for access to health care because its immediate and its immediately free," Sarah McCrea, assistant fire chief of Las Vegas Fire and Rescue, told Fox News.
"We dont ask for any sort of insurance or payment at time of arrival of when the phone is picked up by a call taker, we just answer the phone and we send somebody out and well send you to the hospital.
McCrea, who was instrumental in starting the program, said call volumes are increasing five-to-ten percent each year.
There are similar programs already established in cities like Los Angeles, Texas and New York.
Chapp hopes their program does well as a new way to offset the division of labor and focus resources where they are truly needed.
Especially seeing it from the other side from working in the ER, from people who take the ambulance who dont necessarily need the ambulance that actually ties up the crews because its not a life or death, so they have to sit there and wait, when they could be out on a call to go save somebody, Chapp said.
We hope we can move forward and improve health care, not engage in another battle to take it away from people, because they will fail once again if they try, said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader.
The decision by Senate Republican leaders may prove to be a milestone in the decades-long fight over health insurance in the United States, suggesting that the Affordable Care Act had gained at least a reprieve and perhaps a measure of political acceptance.
Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee and the chairman of the Senate health committee, and Senator Patty Murray of Washington, the senior Democrat on the panel, have been working on legislation to stabilize insurance markets and hold down premiums in the next couple of years.
Both said on Tuesday that they hoped to resume those efforts.
Millions of people who buy insurance on their own face sharp increases in premiums next year, and Trump administration officials have taken a number of steps that have already undermined the operations of the health law.
And health care is sure to be an issue in next years midterm elections.
Senator John Thune of South Dakota, a member of the Senate Republican leadership, said the concept behind the Graham-Cassidy bill would help Republicans define their differences with Democrats in the campaign season.
Single payer, socialism  or federalism, returning power to the states to make decisions, Mr. Thune said.
I think thats a great contrast for us, and I think thats an argument eventually we can win.
For their part, Democrats have tried to use health care as a bludgeon against the few Senate Republican targets they have next year, mainly Senators Dean Heller of Nevada and Jeff Flake of Arizona.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We know Republicans like Dean Heller and Jeff Flake wont stop until they force Americans to pay more for less, and we will make sure voters hold them accountable for it, the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee said in a statement this week.
The Graham-Cassidy bill would have taken money provided under the Affordable Care Act for insurance subsidies and the expansion of Medicaid and sent it to states in the form of block grants.
The bills demise was welcomed by consumer groups, doctors, hospitals and insurance executives who mobilized opposition to the proposal.
The Congressional Budget Office said Monday that the bill would have reduced projected federal Medicaid spending by $1 trillion over a decade, added millions of Americans to the ranks of the uninsured and eliminated consumer protections for some people with pre-existing conditions.
Senate Republicans tried in July to approve a repeal bill, but that attempt ended in defeat when Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, gave a thumbs-down, killing that version of the legislation.
This time, Senate Republicans were trying to pass a different proposal, and a deadline was fast approaching: They had only until the end of this week to pass a repeal bill using special budget rules that shield it from a Democratic filibuster.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Breaking News Emails Sign up to receive an email from The New York Times as soon as important news breaks around the world.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mr. McConnell had planned for a vote before that deadline, but he could afford to lose only two Republicans.
By Tuesday, three members of his party had already gone public with their firm opposition: Ms. Collins, Mr. McCain and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky.
None of the three senators seemed likely to change their minds.
Mr. McCain detested the hasty, partisan process used to push the bill; Ms. Collins had broad concerns about the legislations effects on health care; and Mr. Paul objected to the fundamental architecture of the bill, which in his view constituted fake repeal.
Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah and the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said he saw no reason for the Senate to vote.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

If you dont have the votes, he said, I dont see why we would waste the time of the Senate.
And other Republican senators might have opposed it had party leaders moved forward.
In a statement released after Senate Republicans decided not to do so, Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, who voted against the last repeal attempt in July, denounced what she described as a lousy process.
The U.S. Senate cannot get the text of a bill on a Sunday night, then proceed to a vote just days later, with only one hearing  and especially not on an issue that is intensely personal to all of us, Ms. Murkowski said, without saying which way she would have voted.
Mr. Cassidy was blunt: We dont have the votes, he said, adding, Am I disappointed?
Absolutely.
And Senator David Perdue, Republican of Georgia, was left fuming.
I am kind of disgusted that after nine months, the self-interest is still outweighing the national interest in our caucus in some ways, he said.
But Mr. Graham still held out the hope that the repeal proposal would pass  just later, after Republicans tackle taxes, and when Republicans can consider the repeal plan in a more deliberative fashion.
There are 50 votes for the substance, Mr. Graham said.
There are not 50 votes for the process.
But that could be months away  if not years.
The tax effort will probably occupy Congress through the remainder of this year, and into next year.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After tackling the tax overhaul, Republicans could make another attempt at passing a health bill without needing any Democratic votes.
But such an undertaking would require passing yet another budget blueprint, in order to protect the bill from a Democratic filibuster, and it would put health care front and center as lawmakers head into the midterm elections.
Even as Republicans shift their focus to taxes, pressure is building for a bipartisan response to the problems of the health care system.
The Alexander-Murray stabilization package has two main elements: money for subsidies paid to insurance companies, to reimburse them for reducing out-of-pocket costs for low-income people, and more freedom for states to revamp their insurance markets.
Democrats see the cost-sharing subsidy payments as essential.
But many Republicans, including Mr. Trump, have described them as a bailout for insurance companies that would prop up the Affordable Care Act.
I think most of the members would suggest they really dont know that they can stabilize the product at this stage of the game, said Senator Mike Rounds, Republican of South Dakota.
I think theres a number of them that are going to be very hesitant to try to put more money into a system that they are convinced is going south.
Earlier Tuesday, with little hope of success in the Senate, Mr. Trump expressed his displeasure.
At some point there will be a repeal and replace, but well see whether or not that point is now or will it be shortly thereafter, he said at the White House.
But we are disappointed in certain so-called Republicans.
The failure in the Senate was also a disappointment to Republicans in the House, who managed to pass a repeal bill in May after their own struggles.
Were a little frustrated that the Senate has not acted on a seminal promise, said Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin.
Then he returned to talking up the need for a tax overhaul.
Exercise is known to have considerable psychological effects.
It can raise moods, for example, and expand peoples sense of what they are capable of doing.
So perhaps, the researchers speculated, exercise might alter how well people can control their impulses.
To find out, the scientists decided first to mount a tiny pilot study, involving only four men and women.
These volunteers, who had been sedentary and overweight, were told they would be taking part in an exercise program to get them ready to complete a 5K race, and that the study would examine some of the effects of the training, including psychological impacts.
The volunteers began by completing a number of questionnaires, including one that quantified their delay discounting, a measure that psychologists use to assess someones ability to put off pleasures now for greater enjoyments in the future.
It tests, for instance, whether a person would choose to accept $5 today or $15 a week from now.
The delay-discounting questionnaire is generally accepted in research circles as a valid measure of someones self-control.
The volunteers then undertook a two-month walking and jogging regimen, meeting three times a week for 45 minutes with the researchers, who coached them through the sessions, urging them to maintain a pace that felt difficult but sustainable.
Each week the men and women also repeated the questionnaires.
Finally, a month after the formal training had ended, the volunteers returned to the university for one more round of testing.
(Later, two of them also ran 5K races.)
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The results were intriguing, the researchers felt.
Three of the four participants had developed significantly greater self-control, according to their delay-discounting answers, and maintained those gains a month after the formal training had ended.
But one volunteer, who had missed multiple sessions, showed no changes in impulsivity.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A four-person study is too small to be meaningful, though, so the researchers next repeated the experiment with 12 women of varying ages, weights and fitness levels.
The results were almost identical to those in the pilot study.
Most of the women gained a notable degree of self-control, based on their questionnaires, after completing the walking and jogging program.
(In this experiment, they were told they were training for better fitness.)
But the increases were proportional; the more sessions a woman attended or the more her average jogging pace increased, the greater the improvement in her delay-discounting score.
These gains lingered a month after the training had ended, although most of the women had tapered off their exercise routines by then.
The upshot of these results would seem to be that exercise could be a simple way to help people shore up their self-restraint, says Michael Sofis, a doctoral candidate in applied behavioral science at the University of Kansas who led the study.
These two experiments cannot tell us, though, how exercise helps us to ignore a cupcakes allure.
But Mr. Sofis says that many past studies have concluded that regular exercise alters the workings of portions of the brain involved in higher-level thinking and decision-making, which, in turn, play important roles in impulse control.
Exercise also may have more abstract psychological impacts on our sense of self-control, he says.
It is, for many of us, a concentrated form of delayed gratification.
Exerting ourselves during a workout is not always immediately pleasurable.
But it can feel marvelous afterward to know that we managed to keep going, a sensation that could spill over into later decision-making.
Of course, with a total of only 16 participants, these experiments remained small-scale and limited, relying on a fundamentally artificial, mathematical measure of self-control.
The scientists did not, for example, track whether the volunteers became less impulsive in their actual daily lives.
Mr. Sofis and his colleagues hope to conduct follow-up studies that will look at the real-world impacts of exercise on self-control.
But for now, he says, these results suggest that normal people can change and improve their self-control with regular physical activity.
Far too often, I would regard an off-the-cuff remark by a work colleague, a roll of the eyes when I offered an idea at a meeting, or a sigh when I arrived late, as aggressive and threatening, an insult directed toward me.
At another office where I was working as a commercial copywriter it still pains me to recall the time someone asked what I was listening to on my headphones.
When I replied Coldplay and my colleagues all laughed, I wasnt sure why.
Maybe they found me as depressing as the artists I listened to?
Once again it felt like I was being bullied.
I quit that job shortly afterward.
To this day I am unsure if I was a victim of bullying in the office or just overly sensitive to others.
And a 9-to-5 office role is relentless.
It doesnt allow me the flexibility to see a therapist on a regular schedule.
I also often forgot general medical checkups, and many times forgot to re-order my medication at the pharmacy, which would send me into a panic attack.
Luckily, every office has its own underdog or pecked hen.
They usually gravitated to me as a kindred spirit, taking me aside to calm me down or nip out for a cigarette.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
I remember on one occasion catching the girl who sat next to me glancing at my computer screen to see what I was working on.
But she held the glance for about 10 seconds, which seemed like a really long time, more like an intrusive stare.
I got very upset and sent a strongly worded email to the company manager, with a few line managers ccd for good measure.
The email was so strongly worded that my colleague had tears in her eyes when she was called in about it and was granted permission to leave work for the day.
She even brought some chocolate to say sorry to me and mentioned more than once that she was Christian.
Once I left that job she unfriended me on Facebook, on my birthday.
Even though by that point she knew I had mental health problems.
When I got my dream job as a fashion writer in London, at a very decent salary, the flights of ideas that are part of my illness, compounded by the restlessness brought on by my medications, sabotaged my success.
Id been there for two weeks when I asked if it was possible I could take a six-month leave to work as a trainee reporter at a local newspaper in Hawaii.
That wasnt allowed, but two weeks later I took three days of holiday and a weekend away to travel to Paris to write a deodorant review for a small, independent magazine.
I took another week off soon after to host writing workshops for people with disabilities.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

My boss was very understanding, and I did last in that job for 18 months but ended up resigning to be closer to my mother, who was having health problems.
My office goodbye card was memorable: Even though I hadnt told many people about my condition, all the notes went along the lines of Ill miss the madness.
An important lesson I have learned by overcoming adversity in the workplace and learning to live with mental illness is that we can build castles with the stones that life throws at us.
I now work from home as a freelance writer, at hours to suit, which allows me the flexibility to get the regular therapy sessions and medical checkups that I need.
I mostly write about mental illness.
I am also writing my first book, A Beginners Guide to Sanity, with a highly regarded professor of psychiatry.
I made just $6,260 last year as a freelance writer.
But Ive seen very real and positive results.
My psychiatric diagnosis has changed from paranoid schizophrenia to schizoaffective disorder.
People with schizoaffective disorder are considered more social than those with a schizophrenia diagnosis but have occasional mood swings.
My new work life, along with therapy, has also taught me that qualities such as confidence as well as work-based skills can be learned and built on.
Perhaps most important, Ive come to accept that I am a work in progress.
The two data sets used different measurements of cognitive abilities like memory, orientation and planning, and the consistency of their findings suggests that the association between vision impairment and compromised brain function is real, the researchers concluded.
The lead author, Dr. Suzann Pershing, ophthalmologist at Stanford University School of Medicine, said that while this association doesnt prove vision loss causes cognitive decline, intuitively it makes sense that the less engaged people are with the world, the less cognitive stimulation they receive, and the more likely their cognitive function will decline.
An earlier study of 625 elderly people at the University of Michigan by Dr. Mary A.M. Rogers and Kenneth M. Langa found that those with poor vision had a 63 percent greater risk of developing dementia over a period of eight and a half years.
Those with poor vision who did not visit an ophthalmologist were five times more likely to experience cognitive decline and nine and a half times more likely to develop Alzheimers disease.
This is not necessarily a one-way relationship, Dr. Pershing said.
If you improve the vision of people with cognitive impairment, they can function better.
Likewise with hearing, where there is stronger evidence that hearing loss can speed cognitive decline.
However, it is not yet known whether wearing properly adjusted hearing aids can decrease the risk of dementia or slow its onset.
A study sponsored by the National Institute on Aging should show in five years whether using hearing aids can help preserve brain function in people with hearing loss as they age.
Dr. Frank R. Lin, otolaryngologist at the Johns Hopkins Center on Aging and Health, said the potential impact is huge, especially now.
Companies like Apple and Samsung are expected to soon market hearing aids that cost perhaps $50 to $300 instead of $5,000 a pair, making this assist accessible to many more people.
(Already, Dr. Lin said, Costco has made a huge dent in affordability, lowering the cost of hearing aids fitted and serviced by well-trained audiologists.)
Meanwhile, heres what we already know.
A prospective study of 1,984 older adults directed by Dr. Lin found that those who initially had hearing loss were 24 percent more likely than their age-mates with normal hearing to experience cognitive decline within six years.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Their cognitive abilities declined up to 40 percent faster than others with normal hearing.
They had greater problems with brain functions like thinking and memory, developing them on average three years earlier than people their age with normal hearing.
And the more severe their hearing loss at the start of the study, the greater their cognitive loss over time.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Older adults with hearing loss face an increased risk of dementia even when you control for diseases like diabetes and high blood pressure, Dr. Lin said in an interview.
So we think theyre causally related.
He suggested three ways that may explain how poor hearing and dementia are linked.
One involves cognitive load  when you cant hear well, the brain receives garbled signals, forcing it to work harder to derive meaning from the message.
Another mechanism may be that people who cant hear well tend to become socially isolated, which results in diminished cognitive stimulation and cognitive loss.
Perhaps most important is a third possible explanation involving brain structure; hearing loss results in a faster rate of brain atrophy mostly over the hearing portion of the brain, which is also involved in functions like memory, learning and thinking.
At Washington University in St. Louis, Jonathan Peelle and colleagues have shown through functional M.R.I.
studies that even people with mild hearing loss recruit more of their frontal cortex, which means that the part of the brain needed for thinking and decision-making is overworked when trying to understand speech.
Even in young adults with clinically normal hearing, Dr. Peelle said, just a small decline in how well they hear engages more of their frontal cortex.
When hearing loss is advanced, studies have shown that the auditory cortex shrinks, which may diminish the brains ability to perform tasks other than hearing, he said.
While the cost-effectiveness of regular screening programs for vision and hearing in older adults has yet to be demonstrated, experts strongly recommend periodic exams to pick up correctable problems that may diminish the risk of dementia and would certainly improve quality of life.
The American Academy of Ophthalmology recommends a comprehensive eye exam every two to four years for people aged 40 to 54 with no symptoms or risk factors for vision loss, increasing to every one to three years for those aged 55 to 64, and every year or two thereafter.
The exams can help to preserve vision by detecting correctable or treatable problems like glaucoma, cataracts and age-related macular degeneration.
The American Speech-Language-Hearing Association recommends a hearing test at least every decade through age 50 and every three years thereafter.
As Dr. Lin explained, hearing loss can occur so gradually that people dont recognize the problem until it is well advanced.
Also, there is no harm done in getting tested.
The science itself  like most attempts to link brain biology to behavior  is murkier.
In recent decades, researchers have made extraordinary strides in understanding the workings of brain cells, neural circuits and anatomy.
Photo

Yet drawing a direct line from those basic findings to what people do out in the world is dicey, given the ineffable interplay among circumstance, relationships and personality.
What scientists  from such diverse fields as psychiatry, neurology and substance use  can say is that the arrows seem to be pointing in the same direction.
A number of brain states raise the risk of acting out violently, and the evidence so far, while incomplete, suggests that C.T.E.
may be one of them.
Dr. Samuel Gandy, director of the N.F.L.
neurology program at Mount Sinai Medical Center, said his research showed that rage and irritability are far and away the most prominent symptoms among former players with likely C.T.E.
His group has identified 10 of 24 former players who probably have the disease.
Scientists at Boston University, who reported the findings on Mr. Hernandez, have described similar behavior in many of the more than 100 players they have evaluated.
The caveat for both research efforts is that these samples are selective: Almost all of the players had signs of possible C.T.E.
before being studied, which led the players and their families to participate and to donate their brains for research.
It may still be that most of the athletes in violent sports who develop the signature brain pathology, especially at modest levels, are no more irritable than anyone else.
But an important hint to the contrary comes from a more mature corner of brain science: dementia research.
People with advanced dementia often begin to act in uncharacteristically aggressive ways, as many caregivers can attest.
In a recent study of dementia patients, Swedish researchers found that 97 of 281 dementia patients had a history of aggression.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Those who acted out earliest in the progression of their disease had so-called frontotemporal degeneration  that is, damage concentrated in the frontal and temporal lobes of the brain.
This is where C.T.E.
shows up, too.
In frontotemporal degeneration, a purported association has been made with criminal behavior, said Kevin Bieniek, a research fellow in the Dickson Neuropathology Lab at the Mayo Clinic College of Medicine in Jacksonville, Fla.
Different disease, but some clinical and pathological parallels to C.T.E.
All of this is far from definitive, given the wide variety of factors that affect motivation and impulsive behavior.
Substance abuse is a prominent example.
Mr. Hernandez was no stranger to illicit drugs, according to testimony at his murder trial.
Studies strongly suggest that people who are mentally unstable, particularly those with severe paranoia, are more likely to become violent when under the influence of alcohol or other drugs.
Photo

The link between steroids  such as testosterone  and rage is another confounding factor.
It is rarely clear in mature athletes whether they have used performance-enhancing drugs, or how much.
Testosterone aggravates aggression in the absence of pathology, Dr. Gandy said.
If theres pathology, its likely to make things worse.
As cases like Mr. Hernandezs and others continue to move into the courts, judges will be making decisions based on limited, piecemeal scientific evidence.
These wont be easy decisions to make.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The only way to diagnose C.T.E.
is at autopsy.
A number of scientists, including Dr. Gandys group, are working to refine brain imaging tests intended to detect the signature pathology in living patients.
Those tests are not yet definitive.
Over the past decade, many courts have been reluctant to admit brain scans as exculpatory evidence.
Theres no serious argument about whether violence comes from the brain, said Owen Jones, director of the MacArthur Foundation Research Network on Law and Neuroscience at Vanderbilt University.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its just hard to make a credible claim that a particular brain injury has caused a particular act of violence.
Photo

Dont worry, be happy  it might make your flu shot more effective.
A new study suggests that older people who are in a good mood when they get the shot have a better immune response.
British researchers followed 138 people ages 65 to 85 who got the 2014-15 vaccine.
Using well-validated tests in the weeks before and after their shots, the scientists recorded mood, stress, negative thoughts, sleep patterns, diet and other measures of psychological and physical health.
They assessed their antibody response to the vaccine with blood tests at four and 16 weeks after their injections.
The study is in Brain, Behavior, and Immunity.
Greater levels of positive mood were associated with higher blood levels of antibodies to H1N1, a potentially dangerous flu strain, at both four and 16 weeks post-vaccination.
No other factors measured were associated with improved immune response.
The authors acknowledge they were not able to control for all possible variables, and that their observational study does not prove cause and effect.
The senior author, Kavita Vedhara, professor of health psychology at the University of Nottingham, said that many things could affect vaccine effectiveness, but most are not under a persons control  age, coexisting illness or vaccine history, for example.
Its not there arent other influences, she said, but it looks like how youre feeling on the day youre vaccinated may be among the more important.
Did she have double vision now, the young doctor asked?
She glanced around the room.
Not just then, but it would come back, she was sure of it.
Other than the macular degeneration, the woman had only high blood pressure, for which she faithfully took a pill each day.
She lived alone, and until all this happened, drove herself to all her appointments and volunteered at a local school for the disabled.
Unrevealing Tests

The young doctor held up a finger, instructing the woman to follow it with her eyes as he traced a large box in front of her face.
Her eyes moved normally.
He asked her to stick her arms out like chicken wings, and he pushed down on them repeatedly, testing her strength.
She seemed a little weaker on the second or third time.
She felt weak all over, she told him.
Not as strong as she used to be.
Sanmartin thought that the patient probably had a stroke.
Less likely, but possible, she could have a small mass or tumor.
Myasthenia gravis (MG), an autoimmune disease that causes intermittent muscle weakness, was also possible but less likely at her age.
She definitely needed an M.R.I.
and also a scan called an M.R.A.
to look at how the blood flowed through her brain.
And she needed a swallowing study because she said she was choking on her food at home.
Whatever made it hard to talk could make it hard to swallow too.
Photo

The M.R.A.
was normal; so was the M.R.I.
There was no stroke, no brain tumor.
All the blood tests were completely normal.
By Day 4 in the hospital, the plan was to send her home.
She would need a follow-up appointment with her eye doctor because the lid was still droopy, and with an ear, nose and throat doctor because she complained of difficulty swallowing, even though she had passed a swallowing test just that morning.
He wasnt sure what she had but figured that they had ruled out the possibilities that might kill her.
That night at the hospital, though, she proved them wrong; she choked while eating dinner.
She wasnt going anywhere.
Circling Back

When Sanmartin presented the patient to Dr. Richard Nowak, the neurologist who took over the team as the attending physician, it still wasnt clear what was wrong with her.
But even before seeing the elderly woman, Nowak told the resident, he already had a diagnosis in mind  he did think she had myasthenia gravis.
In this rare autoimmune disorder, the bodys defense system mistakenly attacks the connections between the nerve fibers and the muscles they command, causing the muscles to tire out quickly.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Sanmartin was surprised.
Hed discussed this at length with the last attending neurologist, who was just as certain it wasnt MG. That doctor argued that although myasthenia often causes weakness in the muscles of the eyes and mouth  not unlike what this woman had  that weakness usually comes and goes.
But this womans symptoms were consistently present.
Besides, the resident added, at 94, wasnt she too old for that?
Age was not a factor, Nowak said.
As the director of Yales myasthenia clinic, he recently diagnosed the disease in a 98-year-old man.
And although men tend to get the disorder later than women  men were more likely to get it in their 60s and women in their 20s and 30s  age alone cant be used to rule it out.
In the meantime, the team should send off the blood tests for MG because it usually took a week or more for the results to come back.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story



A Tired Voice

Sanmartin watched the more experienced doctor examine the woman.
Nowak couldnt find any evidence of double vision.
And the patient passed all the tests he did to try to tire out the muscles of the eyes and shoulders.
Then Nowak asked the patient to count to 50 out loud.
At 29, her voice changed.
It got quieter and a little raspy.
By the time she got to 50, it was barely a whisper, as the muscles she used to speak gave out.
She probably did have MG, Nowak told his resident.
Still, it wasnt proof enough for him to treat her.
Each morning, when Nowak came to see her, her exam was the same  suggestive but not definitive.
One day he wasnt able to see the woman until late afternoon.
She was alert and engaged as always, but her words were slurred and nearly inaudible.
Muscle weakening late in the day is a classic symptom of MG.
The test results hadnt come back yet and probably wouldnt for several more days, so Nowak decided to try a different test.
He would start her on a low dose of Mestinon, the drug used to reduce the muscle weakening of MG.
If she responded, the diagnosis would be confirmed.
Successful Treatment

Sanmartin had the day off when the patient started on the medicine.
When he returned the next morning, he hurried to see her.
She was awake and smiled as he walked in.
She greeted him, and he immediately noticed the change in her voice.
The nasal quality he heard before was gone.
She spoke as if with a different voice.
She could even drink water.
Thin liquids like that are the most challenging to swallow.
When the test results finally came back positive for MG, no one was surprised.
They started her on a second medication.
The hope was that the dual approach of Mestinon for relief of the symptoms and the second drug to help protect her from her wayward immune system would prevent future attacks.
And it did  at least for a while.
But a couple of months later, the woman had a life-threatening flare-up of her disease, an episode of weakness that left her incapable of breathing on her own.
She was on a ventilator for nearly a week.
And strangely, like her first episode of weakness, this terrible crisis came right after she got the injection to treat her macular degeneration.
Was this some unusual reaction to a medicine shed been taking for years?
According to Nowak, no link between the medicine she took and MG has been reported.
But shes unwilling to take that risk  or the eye medication  again.
And if her vision worsens, she told me with the cheerful determination of a survivor, she still has her other eye.
Dr. Mary Anne Jackson, the director of infectious disease and professor of pediatrics at Childrens Mercy Hospital in Kansas City, and an author of the report, said that those sports physicals need to be done well, and done by the adolescents regular doctor.
The visit should be an opportunity to discuss the importance of good personal hygiene, including reminders about not sharing water bottles or sports equipment, about cleaning your footwear and changing your socks, and making sure your feet are clean and dry before you put on those socks.
For the patient and family, Dr. Davies said, the sports physical is a great opportunity to ask, what are some infectious risks and what can I do to manage that.
And for the practitioner, its an opportunity to do some anticipatory guidance, he said, telling the athlete, for example, if you see any lesion on your skin, notify your trainer.
On sports teams, infections can be transmitted in several ways.
The most common involve close contact, Dr. Davies said.
Skin infections can be transmitted directly, especially in wrestling, rugby and football.
They can also be transmitted via mats or floors, shared towels, or communal use of such equipment as callus cutters or soccer shin guards.
So its important to follow infection control practices.
That includes thorough hand-washing, that basic building block of hospital infection control, not sharing water bottles or equipment or towels, and properly and regularly cleaning mats and floors and surfaces.
Any team sport can bring kids into close enough contact for the spread of infectious diseases that travel by respiratory and airborne routes, so athletes must be up-to-date on all the recommended immunizations.
Athletes who travel may have contact with other athletes from other areas, and increasingly across the country, we know there are underimmunized pockets where you may more readily have transmission of highly infectious agents like measles, Dr. Jackson said.
Some kids will play against athletes from other countries, who may not all be immunized to the same standards recommended here.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The most infectious of these vaccine-preventable diseases include the ones that children should all be immunized against from early childhood, such as measles, chickenpox and whooping cough.
Everyone should also get the annual flu shot and the meningitis vaccine, which is recommended at 11 to 12 years of age, with a booster at 16.
All of these diseases can spread rapidly in a close team environment.
And then there are the sports that bring athletes into closer physical contact with one another, especially wrestling and rugby, but also football, basketball and others.
Wrestling and rugby are sufficiently well-known for skin-to-skin transfer that there are herpes virus skin infections actually named for them, Herpes gladiatorum and Herpes rugbiorum (also known as scrum pox).
Herpes can shut down a whole team, Dr. Rice said; wrestlers need regular skin checks before tournaments, looking for herpes, impetigo and ringworm, and treating problems so the athletes can compete.
Prophylactic medications can help prevent herpes recurrences.
Among bacterial skin infections, community-acquired methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, or MRSA, has caused many infections among high school and college athletes.
MRSA has been a major issue in professional sports as well, particularly football, with several N.F.L.
teams having had to deal with outbreaks.
These skin infections can be extremely serious, as can streptococcal skin infections, so identifying and treating the lesions is really important for the individual athletes health, as well as for containing possible spread.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Athletes are also vulnerable to fungal skin infections, like Tinea corporis, or ringworm, not to mention athletes foot (Tinea pedis) and jock itch (Tinea cruris), two fungal infections whose popular names also reflect their tendency to hang around locker rooms.
The fungal pathogens can be transmitted directly, skin to skin, but also by towels and contaminated surfaces.
Infection control for athletes goes beyond attention to personal hygiene; the school and the athletic staff have to be scrupulous about cleaning equipment and the locker room and the weight room.
In wrestling and gymnastics, its about cleaning the mats; in football, about clean tackling dummies; and in every sport, its about clean surfaces in the locker room, from floors to showers.
When outbreaks do occur, the close contact of team members means that they have to be addressed as quickly as possible.
Dr. Rice recalled an outbreak of scabies on a high school wrestling team.
A parent meeting was called immediately, he said, for that very evening, and we called all the pharmacies and made sure they had adequate medication on hand.
They didnt want any delay while each child saw his own doctor, he said, so I actually wrote prescriptions, I didnt want them to have to wait.
Finally, every team and every venue needs to understand universal precautions, that is, that blood and body fluids need to be treated as potentially infectious.
We start teaching from kindergarten, if its wet and not yours, dont touch it, Dr. Jackson said.
There are a lot of great, great things about athletic participation, Dr. Rice said, like exercise, socialization, teamwork and the challenges of competition.
Infection control is meant to keep athletes safe so they can enjoy these benefits.
Interviews with nursing home representatives, hospital personnel, residents families and government officials, as well as a review of emergency response records, show a preventable descent into the suffocating chaos of that early morning.
The nursing homes state-approved emergency plan was confounded by a foreseeable electrical failure.
The home said its repeated requests for help from state and county officials, and to the power company, yielded no results.
Rick Scott and other state and local officials say they never had any indication from Hollywood Hills that residents were in distress, though records show that a facility that shared the building reported that the conditions were adversely affecting patients.
In any event, the officials and the power company said, it was the nursing homes responsibility to ensure its residents safety.
The local medical examiners office is still investigating the cause and manner of the deaths.
As Irma threatened and then passed, nursing home workers reassured families that their loved ones would be safe.
But fans and portable coolers were not enough for some residents, with one so overcome by the heat that she lay nearly naked on a bed in the second-floor hallway.
When firefighters were finally summoned to rush people out, they said the conditions reminded them of battling a fire.
Somewhere in between, the misery of a nursing home teetering toward tragedy was reported to every official channel, but no attempt was made to transfer the residents to a safer place, or even to the air-conditioned hospital practically next door.
Id had the deepest fear all along of my mother being in a situation, a helpless situation, said Vendetta Craig, whose 87-year-old mother was evacuated from the home and survived.
This is the nightmare that has come to fruition.
Plans Set, Hotlines Ready

It was never supposed to come to that.
Before the hurricane bellowed ashore, Mr. Scott, the governor, held news conference after news conference imploring Floridians to flee while they still could.
To elder-care facilities after the storm, he was even more solicitous: He gave them what he said was his personal cellphone number to call for help.
There were also state and county emergency hotlines to turn to.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Hollywood Hills was not in an area that Broward County had ordered evacuated.
Its emergency management plan called for moving residents to a nearby cluster of senior residences, the Marrinson Group, if the need arose.
As it happened, Marrinson residences ended up without power, too.
More than 164 assisted living facilities and 29 nursing homes did evacuate after the storm, according to the Florida health department.
Photo

Very few nursing homes had generators powerful enough to keep the air-conditioning running.
In 2006, Florida lawmakers considered requiring nursing homes to maintain generators to ensure comfortable temperatures during disasters.
But the industry raised concerns about the cost, according to The Miami Herald, and the bill died.
Last week, after the Hollywood Hills deaths, Mr. Scott announced new rules requiring those generators.
Among the nursing homes of South Florida, Hollywood Hills was not highly regarded.
The 152-bed residence had a below average rating from Medicare, with two out of five stars.
Its most recent health inspection, from March, described residents who were not bathed or groomed properly, food that went uncovered in a soiled kitchen, and flaws in the in-room patient call system.
Its owners, who acquired Hollywood Hills in 2015, were among defendants who paid $15.4 million in 2006 to settle federal and state civil claims that they had paid kickbacks to doctors in exchange for patient admissions.
But the home was right next to the hospital and offered round-the-clock nursing care, two important factors for families choosing a home.
Among those who died were Miguel Franco, 92, who visited his wife every day at the home until he joined her there; Gail Nova, 71, who worked as an X-ray technician until her own health failed; and Betty Hibbard, 84, who, after decades working in real estate, would die in the Memorial emergency room with a 107-degree fever, and with no family to mourn her.
Several family members said in interviews that until Irma, they had seen no major problems with their relatives care, praising the staff as dedicated and hardworking.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

When Ms. Craig dropped by three days before the hurricane made landfall to visit her mother, Edna Jefferson, employees at the home told Ms. Craig that the home had a generator and plenty of extra food, diapers and other supplies.
(After the storm, Hollywood Hills said, it stationed eight spot coolers and more than 20 fans around the home.)
One worker told Ms. Craig, You dont have anything to worry about, were all set.
But the preparations were taking a toll.
Ms. Craig said she passed about 30 nursing assistants who had gathered to hear when they were expected to come in over the following days.
As the meeting broke up, Ms. Craig said, she overheard some of them grumbling about the schedule, saying: How can they do this to us?
and We have families, too.
A few minutes later, Ms. Craig heard the woman who had been conducting the meeting tell another nursing assistant, You have to come in.
If she refused, the woman said, she would make sure the assistant never worked in the field again.
Irmas winds and rain collided with South Florida on Sunday morning.
At 3 p.m., according to the nursing home, the main power supply at Hollywood Hills flickered, but only for a moment.
The transformer that powered the air-conditioning system, however, was dead.
The risk to older and debilitated adults in the aftermath of hurricanes, especially in summer weather, should have been obvious.
As people grow older, bodily systems that fight heat break down.
People with common conditions such as heart trouble and diabetes are more susceptible to heat stroke, and those with dementia may not have the wherewithal to remove sweaters or blankets or to drink more to avoid dehydration.
Drugs often used in nursing homes can also inhibit sweating, the bodys main defense.
Officials said Hollywood Hills had been advised to call 911 if anyone was in trouble.
The home said it did call 911.
But doing so when someone is in extremis may already be too late.
You prevent heat stroke by preventing people from getting so hot that they suffer from it, said Dr. Paul Auerbach, a professor of emergency medicine at Stanford University.
The prevention is essential.
Photo

Dr. George Kuchel, a geriatric medicine specialist and the director of the UConn Center on Aging, said bodily temperatures can spike rapidly.
We see it often, he said.
Theyre able to compensate until a certain point but then are overwhelmed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Many Calls but Little Action

The Monday after the hurricane, the power company said it would repair the transformer that morning, according to a timeline provided by the nursing home.
Then it promised to send someone in the afternoon.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
More phone calls went out to state health and emergency management officials, and even to the governors cellphone.
A psychiatric hospital in the same building, Larkin Community Hospital Behavioral Health Services, which shared an owner with Hollywood Hills, also called to ask for help.
Our A.C. is down and we do have chillers, but theyre not cooling the building enough, an executive of that facility, Natasha Anderson, said in a call to the states emergency information hotline at 5:37 p.m. on Monday, according to a transcript of the call released by the governors office.
Its like 80 degrees in the building right now with elderly and psychiatric patients.
When Eva Moulder, 64, checked on her 93-year-old mother, Bertha Aguiar, who lived at the home and has Alzheimers, she noticed portable air-conditioners in the hallway.
Her mothers small room on the first floor was a little warm.
She opened a window to let in a breeze.
But the temperature seemed normal, she said.
All around South Florida, however, concern about seniors was rising.
On Tuesday morning, caller after caller reported that nursing homes and retirement communities where thousands of seniors lived had no power.
Century Village had none.
Neither did Wynmoor Village.
Sometime that day, according to records released by the governors office, a note was added to Broward Countys emergency management system: The building that housed Larkin and Hollywood Hills is running on generator power w/o air conditioning.
The conditions were adversely affecting patients, the note said.
The power company had been alerted, the note said, and a representative from the state agency that oversees elder-care facilities was aware.
Voice mail messages left on Mr. Scotts cellphone were transcribed by staff members into emails that were forwarded to other state officials.
But the problems remained unsolved.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In Broward County, the mayor, Barbara Sharief, said in an interview that Hollywood Hills never told the county there was an emergency.
Accordingly, she said, when she met with power company executives that afternoon, she did not single out the residence when she urged them to move all nursing homes and senior communities to the critical category for restoring power.
The power company told her that prioritizing all such buildings was impossible, she said.
There were just too many.
In a statement, Florida Power & Light officials said they could not say much because of the investigation, but they echoed comments made by state and county officials that customers should call 911 in a life-threatening situation.
Inside the building, the heat was closing in.
Adriana Giraldo came to visit her 89-year-old parents, Libia and Gabriel Giraldo, at 8 that evening.
Upstairs, where residents with dementia and others who could not take care of themselves lived, nothing was normal.
Rolled out of their usual rooms into the hallway, some people lay in their beds in front of a large, ineffectual fan.
They normally wore pajama-like clothing; now they had only light hospital gowns on.
A video Ms. Giraldo shot on her cellphone showed Ms. Hibbard crumpled in motionless misery.
She was naked except for a diaper.
Photo

Ms. Giraldo found her parents, who ultimately survived the ordeal, in bed in their small beige room, wearing socks and blankets, which she hurried to relieve them of.
The window was cracked open, with the floral drapes pulled up to keep the slit clear.
(The nursing home did not explain why the windows were not more open, but some homes restrict openings for residents safety.)
A small fan was running.
Someone brought water when she asked, but there was no ice.
One resident, a 93-year-old man, was taken to the hospital with a fever sometime that day.
But no alarms went off.
That evening, the homes administrator, Jorge Carballo, checked on every resident, one of whom is his father-in-law, according to Hollywood Hills.
Doctors and a physician assistant had made the rounds earlier that day.
No one seemed to be in distress, the home said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Hollywood Hills was staffed well above state requirements, and residents were monitored by both caregivers and nonclinical individuals, the homes lawyers, Kirsten Ullman and Julie Allison, said in a statement.
There was no indication at this time that a global emergency existed based on overall conditions at Hollywood Hills.
One Death After Another

The calls for rescue, when they finally came, kept coming in gasps all that long and airless night.
Ms. Hibbard, the first person to make it to the emergency room that Wednesday morning, with a diagnosis of heat stroke, was removed from life support and died.
Just minutes after hospital workers had cleaned Room 9 and restocked it with supplies, another patient arrived: Carolyn Eatherly, 78, who, like Ms. Hibbard, had no family.
Her heart had stopped.
Her forehead was purple.
At 4:33 a.m., about half an hour before she was pronounced dead, she had a temperature of 108.3.
By then, other residents were going into cardiac arrest.
At 6 a.m., Hollywood Hillss director of nursing told the staff to move everyone from the hotter second floor to the cooler first floor, according to a court filing by the nursing home contesting the states move to shut it down.
The emergency responders who had seen the residents and felt the heat for themselves decided that everyone had to get out.
We had no idea the extent of what was going on until we literally sent people room to room to check on people, said Dr. Randy Katz, the hospitals chairman of emergency medicine.
Many of the families heard something was wrong for the first time that morning when they turned on their televisions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A friend called Ms. Craig.
I dont want to scare you, she told Ms. Craig, but turn on CNN.
Ms. Craig was thinking, What did I do?
she said in an interview, breaking off to sob.
She blamed herself for putting her mother in the home.
She prayed: Oh God, please dont let my mother be dead.
I just imagined her wanting me there with her, she said, looking at the door, wondering when I was going to get her out of the heat.
When she found her mother in the hospital just before noon, she had a fever of 102 degrees, an IV in each arm and a catheter.
Her hair was matted; a whitish crust, like dried milk, glazed her hairline, her neck and the skin around her ears.
She whimpered, and jumped at Ms. Craigs touch.
She was not the lady that I left on Thursday, Ms. Craig said.
I trusted them.
I trusted them, and they failed my mother.
That morning  three days after Irma, a few hours after Ms. Hibbard died and soon after everyone else was evacuated  someone from the power company arrived at Hollywood Hills to fix the transformer.
It took 15 minutes to get the air-conditioning back on.
However, we should be careful not to think there are too many savings to be had by removing just any kind of administrative waste.
A number of advocates have argued that by removing medical underwriting and individual rating, insurers would be much more efficient and save money.
After the Affordable Care Act imposed guaranteed issue and community ratings, huge savings did not result.
Further, one persons waste is another persons job.
The trade-offs cant be ignored.
THE SWEET SPOT IS REGULATED NONPROFITS?
Based on personal experience with the German health care system and my sisters personal experience with the Swiss system: Both systems use competing nonprofit private companies (that is the key) that are heavily regulated.
A highly regulated nonprofit company is an efficient compromise construction between a government single-payer system (not exposed to competition) and between a free market of competing, unregulated, for-profit health insurance companies.
Gerhard, NY

Austin and Aaron respond:

This may be entirely correct.
Lets remember that Switzerland won the battle, and most people in that country do have insurance from a regulated market of guaranteed-issue, community-rated nonprofit private insurance companies.
Many components of the United States health care system are nonprofit, too, and theres a robust literature on how nonprofit and for-profit entities fare relative to each other.
For instance, there appears to be a relationship between the availability of nonprofit nursing homes in an area and levels of consumer welfare.
A review of systematic reviews of profit versus nonprofit hospitals found that for certain outcomes nonprofit hospitals performed better.
Overall quality and efficiency differences could not be determined, though.
In general, however, it appears that for-profit entities focus on cost (pushing it lower) while nonprofits focus on quality (pushing it higher).
There are always trade-offs, and we in the U.S. have generally favored the latter.
WHAT ABOUT THE DUTCH?
Weird how you picked the U.K. and Germany but not the Netherlands.
According to the annual Euro Health Consumer Index (E.H.C.I.
), the Netherlands systematically has the best health care in Europe  yes, better than Switzerland, year on year, and with the U.K. at 14th sandwiched between Portugal (13th) and the Czech Republic (15th).
Rdeman, London

Austin and Aaron respond: There are, of course, more countries than we had space to discuss.
We tried to pick countries that varied across the spectrum from socialized to privatized.
Though we welcome delving more deeply into some of these other countries, aspects of them are close to those of the ones weve already discussed.
The Netherlands, like many other countries, has a health care system along what the Princeton professor Uwe Reinhardt calls the Bismarckian model, in which health insurance is mandated from one of a small number of tightly regulated nonprofits.
People also can buy voluntary insurance above that, which covers things not covered by statutory insurance.
The country spends about 12 percent of gross domestic product on health care, and out-of-pocket payments are quite low.
How it would have compared in this battle isnt clear, but we think it would have done pretty well.
BEING INJURED ABROAD

We received many, many testimonials from American readers who received good treatment at reasonable prices (and no payment troubles) while living abroad or traveling.
By contrast, one reader from Australia advised that all visitors to the United States carry travel insurance, and a Canadian expressed surprise (below) at what awaited him after he broke his neck on a visit to the U.S.

Five years ago I fell off a rock and broke my hip while vacationing in Ireland.
An ambulance took me to the hospital.
Needless to say, my biggest worry was how am I going to pay for this.
I was distraught.
I had no coverage in the USA.
The staff at the hospital were very kind and assured me I would be O.K.
They replaced my hip, and when it was time to leave, they asked if I could pay $600.
No other bills arriving four months later, like in the USA.
$600, one bill, Done!
Jaw-dropping amazing.
I am grateful to Ireland, thank you!
Golf Pork, Seattle I live in British Columbia.
Some years ago I broke my neck in a motor vehicle accident in Washington State.
I received excellent treatment and had the comfort of knowing that my British Columbia government health insurance would cover all expenses, even out of country.
I was, however, taken aback when the first person I met in the emergency ward had a clipboard and was asking me how I would pay for all this.
I had never before faced this question.
David Paterson, Vancouver

Austin and Aaron respond: We hesitate to allow anecdotes to define a health care system.
What matters is the overall experience.
Reid wrote an amazing book on this subject in 2009, though, which was reviewed in The New York Times.
Another problem with anecdotes about overseas health care excellence is that they can always be countered by people who came to the United States because they couldnt get good care in their country.
We hear all the time about how people from Canada flock to the United States when wait times are too long.
Those stories are almost always exceptions, not the rule, as a great paper in Health Affairs showed.
Its interesting to note, though, that most of the stories in the comments are driven by the shock of Americans when they can receive high-quality, reasonably priced health care in other countries.
Weve been conditioned to believe that the only choices available are our system or utter chaos.
This exercise was designed to show otherwise.
There are lots of other choices available, many of them are good, and some that are probably better.
Cardiologists learned that they could prevent plaque accumulation by changing diet or habits or by using cholesterol-lowering drugs like Lipitor.
Beyond prevention, the doctors could forcibly widen the arterial blockade or inject clot-busting drugs.
The image of scales of lead clogging old pipes, and a Roto-Rooter, was hard to shake.
Coronary artery disease, it seemed then, was mainly a plumbing problem, demanding a plumbers toolbox of solutions (to be fair, theres a cosmos of biology behind cholesterol metabolism and its link to heart disease).
Photo

Cancer, by contrast, was an exterminators problem  a poisoners dilemma.
Cancer-causing agents unleashed abnormal cellular proliferation by mutating genes involved in regulating growth.
These cancer cells, occupying tissues and spreading, demanded a cellular poison  chemotherapy  that would spare normal cells and kill the malignant ones.
Cardiologists and oncologists  plumbers and poisoners  lived in different medical realms.
We spoke different languages, attended different conferences, read different specialty journals.
If our paths intersected, we considered the crossing coincidental, the unavoidable convergence of two common age-related illnesses on the same body.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I was a medical resident in Boston in the early 2000s when I heard a theory that would, in time, force these separate worlds to collide.
Two cardiologists, Peter Libby and Paul Ridker, were thinking about plaque formation in a different way.
Libby and Ridker acknowledged the role of cholesterol and lipids.
But just as important was another variable, seldom discussed: inflammation  the recruitment and activation of certain immune cells.
These activated immune cells infiltrated blood vessels early in the course of coronary disease and enabled plaques to grow and rupture.
Bad cholesterol was a necessary part of the equation  it was these lipid deposits that may incite the immune cells, they proposed  but it was not sufficient.
If inflammation triggers coronary disease, might targeting it directly  beyond simply reducing cholesterol  decrease the risk of heart attacks?
Over the course of a decade, Libby and Ridker found themselves focusing on a molecule involved in inflammation called interleukin-1 beta.
By the mid-2000s, they heard of a new drug  an interleukin-1-beta inhibitor  that was used to treat exceedingly rare inflammatory diseases.
In April 2011, Ridkers team started enrolling 10,000 patients who carried signs of inflammation and were at very high risk for coronary disease in a randomized study to determine the effects of the inhibitor on heart disease and strokes.
The results, published this August, are provocative: Despite no change in cholesterol levels, there was a demonstrable reduction in heart attacks, stroke and cardiovascular death, particularly at higher doses of the drug.
But what caught my attention was a separate analysis that asked a seemingly unrelated question: Might the drug also reduce the risk of cancer?
In a paper published in The Lancet, Ridker and his colleagues found that drug-treated patients had a drop in all cancer mortality.
More striking still was a stark decrease in the incidence of and deaths from lung cancer.
Some element of inflammation that drives plaque formation in coronary disease is also driving cancer progression.
Its a study that needs careful replication; the analysis was designed to suggest a hypothesis, not to prove it.
There are questions about drug pricing and the risks of infections and low blood counts.
But if the benefit holds up in future trials, interleukin-1-beta inhibition could eventually rank among the most effective prevention strategies in the recent history of cancer.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Inflammation at the nexus between cancer and heart disease?
But of course, some of you must be thinking, with an exasperated nod.
Youve had your third serving of blueberries; youve drunk your green tea.
Wasnt it obvious all the while?
It isnt so simple.
An avalanche of studies has implicated inflammation as a central player in many diseases  but there are inconsistencies.
Consider an inflammatory illness like lupus: The risk of most cancers (except some virally related cancers and lymphomas) in lupus patients is only marginally higher.
Rheumatoid arthritis increases the risk of lymphomas  but oddly lowers the risk of breast cancer.
Tuberculosis, an inflammation-inducing disease, appears to promote lung-cancer risk, but in an animal study, eczema, weirdly, reduces the risk of skin cancer.
Meanwhile, an alternative-medicine industry daily peddles anti-inflammatory diets  but which of these reduce inflammation, or what types of inflammation are affected, remains far from known.
Inflammation, in short, is a concept in flux  a wastebasket word, as Padmanee Sharma, an immuno-oncologist at M.D.
Anderson Cancer Center, told me.
There isnt one inflammation: Lupus, tuberculosis and influenza all cause inflammation, but each might provoke different or overlapping wings of immune responses.
I asked James Allison, who pioneered cancer immunotherapy, to define inflammation, and he paused, considering the definition.
Its a response to injury, mediated by immunological cells.
But there are dozens of cell types communicating through even further dozens of signals.
We might imagine inflammation, then, as a fuse box that you chance upon in a new house.
You are looking for the switch that turns the light on in the living room, or one that turns the alarm off (just as were hoping to throw the switch that disables cancer growth or plaque formation).
But the circuitry baffles you.
Some knobs are marked in crimson: Do Not Touch.
Some carry no labels.
Some do, but the writing is in a foreign language.
Inflammation, an umbrella term, is now being broken up into many different categories, Sharma told me.
Is it chronic or acute?
Is there a right kind of inflammation that protects us from infections and a wrong kind that precipitates disease?
Is it mediated adaptive immunity  the type of immunity involving B and T cells that adapts to infections?
Or innate immunity, the more ancient phalanx of immune responses that is preprogrammed to fight certain pathogens?
When doctors read trials like Ridkers, we generally ask two sets of questions.
The first might be loosely described as: Is it good science and good medicine?
Was the concept proposed in the study proved by the trial?
Were the conclusions accurate, the adverse effects acceptable?
Cardiologists and oncologists I spoke to agreed on the technical accuracy of the study.
One of them noted the modest benefit for heart disease; Ridker and Libby counter that the drug is at least as effective as some cholesterol-reducing medicines.
But theres a second kind of inquiry thats harder to put a finger on, for it lives in a nearly aesthetic realm.
Does the study illuminate something strange and wonderful about human physiology?
A trial might be good but is it, well, beautiful?
This study is: It links disparate arenas of medicine through a common pathological mechanism.
Its hard to know whether the illnesses in the man I met were driven by inflammation, but Ridker and Libby forced me to view his case  and a thousand other cases Id seen previously  under new clinical lights.
I will never think about patients with cancer and coronary disease in the same way.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Theres another twist of wonder, though.
What are the chances that one molecule, sitting at one corner of the immune response, acts as a switch for two utterly different diseases?
It must be a quirk in our design, a barely visible chink in physiology that allows us to target inflammation in a manner that doesnt kill or maim but acts just so, disabling two terrifying illnesses.
Its as if we had walked into the basement of the new house, found the fuse box, learned to read the coded language of the labels and  in the partial darkness  pulled just one switch.
And, miracle of miracles: Upstairs, only the living-room lights went on.
That incident probably took years off my life.
After another wee-hours-of-the-morning baby rave, I unplugged the thing and shoved it in the closet.
Because Im married to someone in the industry, gadgets often make an appearance in our house in the spirit of research.
Not long ago, Dave came home with a Nest camera, technically a security camera that has been widely co-opted by parents who appreciate that it live-streams crisp HD video to their phones, alerts their phones whenever there is activity in the nursery and, for $10 a month, stores 10 days of video footage in the cloud.
After weeks of being notified at work when Ella was crying or moving around (read: being a baby) and hours sunk addictively scrolling in fast-forward to see her move around in her sleep, it dawned on me that all this technology, which purportedly calms agitated parents, actually agitates them more.
This goes for the more cutting-edge gadgets that monitor vital signs, but is equally apparent in straight up video monitors, some of which will now sync up with Amazons new video-enabled Echo Show.
No parent is going to say No to a product that positions itself as standing between your child and death, Alexis Dubief, the author of Precious Little Sleep, a blog that deals with all things baby sleep-related that had kept me entertained and informed during Ellas newborn phase, told me one morning when I reached her by phone.
Youre eating beans and rice for a month and you cant afford heat, but thats fine.
Ms. Dubiefs main concerns with these gadgets?
Whether or not the information they transmit is a) accurate or b) actionable.
I want to know, can I apply this information in some meaningful way, or is it just noise?
she said.
Monitoring is a major category in baby tech.
The POMO baby tracker ($119) not only notifies you when your child has moved outside of a safe 15 meter distance, but also monitors your babys temperature, so that, according to its website, you will always know if the blanket slips off  a piece of information youd also know, presumably, by seeing the blanket not on your child.
If temperature monitoring happens to be your jam, theres a whole spate of new products to choose from.
Take the FeverFrida ($69.99), part of an ever-growing line of Frida products that includes a NoseFrida (which allows devoted parents to suck snot out of tiny nostrils) and Windi the Gas Passer (Ill let you extrapolate).
The TempTraq patch, placed under the babys arm, takes his temperature every four seconds and pings your phone if something is up.
These hyper monitors join myriad others that record your babys every move, from how much he is drinking while breast-feeding (Momsenses sensor, affixed to the babys throat, counts swallows) to precisely how many minutes of sleep shes getting a night.
The Nanit watches your babys movements at night and uses computer vision to spit out an algorithmically generated sleep score each morning.
As if I need an algorithm to tell me whether or not my kid has slept well, one mom of three scoffed.
So, is all this info just noise?
I called my pediatrician, Dr. Michael Yaker, a founding partner of Westside Pediatrics in Manhattan and a faculty member of the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In general, do the vital signs of healthy babies need to be monitored regularly?
Absolutely not, he told me.
If it makes a parent more comfortable with a situation, fine, but I wouldnt make any actionable medical decisions based on it.
And in the cases of unhealthy babies?
Preemies who are leaving the neonatal intensive care unit, perhaps?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

If your baby needs to be on a monitor regularly tracking vital signs, your baby is likely not ready to be discharged from the hospital, he said.
The American Academy of Pediatrics agrees, according to Dr. Lori Feldman-Winter, professor of pediatrics at Cooper Medical School of Rowan University in New Jersey and an author of the A.A.P.s most recent SIDS policy paper.
We dont recommend products that are specifically sold to reduce the risk of SIDS because we think its false advertising, she said.
So, when it comes to noise, a resounding yes.
And yet: Most of the friends I called, all with healthy babies, admitted that monitoring their monitors had become a habit they couldnt break.
I hate the Nest, one told me, but I cant look away.
I spent the entire time on our first date in weeks staring at the phone.
Whats more boring than watching your baby sleep?
Once, when scrolling back through her childs day, she inadvertently caught her mother-in-law at the house, even though she was supposed to be on another continent, causing her anxiety level to shoot through the roof.
Pamela Druckerman, author of Bringing Up Bb  part memoir about being an expat raising children in Paris, part anthropological study of French child-rearing  made me think we should all take a page out of the playbook franaise.
The French arent against baby monitors, but theyre suspicious of extremes  including extreme surveillance of otherwise healthy kids, she wrote in an email.
They understand that, at the beginning of the babys life, youre setting the tone for family life going forward.
If you start out by tracking the babys every breath, what comes next?
Health care is a deeply personal, complex issue that affects every single one of us and one-sixth of the American economy, Ms. Collins said in a statement, lamenting the rushed process and the content of legislation that has shifted as Republican leaders scrambled for votes.
Sweeping reforms to our health care system and to Medicaid cant be done well in a compressed time frame, especially when the actual bill is a moving target.
The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, now faces the unpalatable choice of admitting defeat or moving ahead with a vote that appears certain to fail.
Republican leaders in the Senate can afford to lose only two of their members, and they now have three firm opponents within their ranks: Rand Paul of Kentucky, John McCain of Arizona and Ms. Collins.
Additionally, Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, has withheld his support and requested changes to the bill.
Time is not on their side: Republicans have only until the end of the month to pass the bill through the Senate while being protected from a Democratic filibuster.
Beginning in October, Republicans would need Democratic votes in order to pass a repeal bill, a seeming impossibility given that Democratic senators have been unified in opposition to the repeal push.
Some Republican senators have suggested starting over, with parliamentary language in a new budget blueprint that once again would shield repeal legislation from a filibuster.
But that could terribly complicate Republican efforts to overhaul the tax code, a risk the leadership may not want to take.
Ms. Collinss announcement came three days after Mr. McCain said that he could not in good conscience support the latest repeal proposal, written by Senators Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Bill Cassidy of Louisiana.
Were going to press on, Mr. Graham said hours later, during a Monday night CNN debate on health care.
He raised the possibility of still holding a vote, even as he acknowledged it might fail: Its O.K.
to vote.
Its O.K.
to fall short, if you do, for an idea you believe in.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The senators released a revised version of their bill on Monday morning, hoping to win over holdout Republicans in part by shifting more funds to states like Alaska and Maine.
The bill would take money provided under the Affordable Care Act for insurance subsidies and the expansion of Medicaid and send it to states, with vast new discretion over how to use it for health care or coverage.
But writing a repeal bill that could win over at least 50 of the 52 Republican senators has proved extraordinarily difficult, and putting together a complicated bill against the backdrop of a ticking clock only added to the challenge.
Insurers, hospitals, doctors and patient advocacy groups assailed the proposal, as did the late-night talk show host Jimmy Kimmel.
The Capitol complex looked at times like a hospital ward on Monday as patients swarmed through the corridors, pleading with senators not to take away their health insurance.
Some wore T-shirts that said, I Am a Pre-Existing Condition.
The Senate Finance Committee held a hearing on the repeal bill on Monday, and it was immediately disrupted by people in the audience shouting opposition to the proposal.
No cuts to Medicaid, they chanted.
Save our liberty!
Capitol police officers removed the protesters, some of whom were in wheelchairs.
As Mr. Cassidy and Mr. Graham revised their bill to try to build support, critics asserted that their last-minute changes further weakened protections for patients, including those with cancer and other pre-existing conditions.
Photo

Dick Woodruff, senior vice president at the lobbying arm of the American Cancer Society, said that under the bill, patient protections provided by the Affordable Care Act would be up to each state to decide.
Some states could decide not to cover even preventive services, like cancer screenings, routine mammography or colonoscopy, Mr. Woodruff said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Republican senators had to make up their minds with little information about the measures implications.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said Monday that millions of additional people would be uninsured under the Graham-Cassidy bill, compared with the number of people expected to lack coverage under current law.
Enrollment in Medicaid would be substantially lower because of large reductions in federal funding for that program, the budget office said.
But the budget office said it did not have time to produce a more complete assessment, leaving senators without specifics on how the bill would affect coverage and health insurance premiums.
The rushed process contributed to the bills demise.
Mr. McCain, who killed the last repeal effort in July with a dramatic middle-of-the-night vote, faulted Republicans for trying to pass sweeping health care legislation without the participation of Democrats or extensive public deliberations.
Mr. Paul had previously said he would oppose the Graham-Cassidy bill because it did not go far enough in repealing the health law.
On Monday, he continued to denounce it as a fake repeal.
Mr. Paul presented himself as open to compromise, voicing support for a narrower measure.
But he rejected the Graham-Cassidy bills core concept of providing block grants to the states to use for health care  leaving little room for Republican leaders to win his vote unless they radically altered the legislation.
I think if you vote for this bill, you put your stamp of approval on a trillion dollars worth of Obamacare spending, he said.
Mr. Paul was not the only conservative with reservations.
Mr. Cruz said on Sunday that he had not yet been won over and was seeking changes to the repeal plan, though he said he wanted to ultimately wind up in favor of the bill.
An aide to Mr. Cruz said on Monday that he still wanted to see changes.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Before Ms. Collinss announcement on Monday, Mr. Trump expressed frustration that Republicans had talked for years about repealing and replacing the Affordable Care Act but failed to deliver now that a Republican was in the White House.
On the Rick & Bubba Show, a radio program, Mr. Trump singled out Mr. McCain, calling his vote in July a tremendous slap in the face of the Republican Party.
And the president seemed resigned to defeat in the latest attempt at repeal.
Were going to lose two or three votes, he said, and thats the end of that.
The report, which was distributed last week, was a model for multidisciplinary needs-assessment projects on opioid addiction and recovery, said Dr. Silvia Martins, an associate professor of epidemiology at Columbias Mailman School of Public Health.
Dr. Martins was a faculty adviser on the project, along with Dr. Lisette Nieves, a New York University professor.
Even within the same institution, we dont always talk to each other.
We are too busy with our own research projects, Dr. Martins said.
I think that projects like this that bring together people with different expertise should be done more often.
For sure.
Not only at the city level but at the state level.
Though the effort fell outside her mandate to prosecute drug crimes, Ms. Brennan said treatment, law enforcement and medical research all have a hand in curbing the epidemic.
What youll find working in this area is that people have a lot of biases.
We come with our baggage through the years, we develop a certain perspective, and there it is, she said.
This epidemic is just different from everything else weve dealt with, so the approaches have to be different.
Photo

And its a different time.
If weve learned one thing, it is that problems of addiction are not going to solved with making lots of arrests.
The district attorney, Michael McMahon  who describes himself as a lifelong Staten Island resident and whose office investigates drug overdoses as criminal cases  shared overdose data with the researchers.
Dr. Nieves called that precisely the sort of collaboration across diverse stakeholders that she said can yield solutions.
I lived through the crack epidemic and I never saw this kind of coordination.
And this is something that we can learn from, Dr. Nieves said.
You can either act like its not happening or you can make the information public.
And they want to be leaders in this and I was very inspired by it.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The benefits to collaborating, Mr. McMahon said, are simple: substance abuse problems bleed into other issues, including domestic violence, larceny and violent drug-related crimes.
Mr. McMahon echoed Brennans comment that the solution does not simply rest on making arrests.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Where I still see the big gap is the disjointed and ineffective prevention education program, he said.
Thats where I dont see a collaboration yet.
Were meeting with principals and superintendents, we are working on it, but I wont be happy with that part until its discussed just like tobacco.
In the report, the researchers said that expanding treatment options, rather than law enforcement approaches, was crucial to stemming the increase in opioid deaths.
Mr. McMahon and Ms. Brennan agreed.
The report recommended expanding medication-assisted treatment options and training physicians about treatments like buprenorphine, an opioid substitute that helps addicts with withdrawal symptoms while they try to quit.
In particular, the report said those services should be more centrally located on the island.
Other recommendations included media campaigns to raise awareness about opioid addiction and reduce stigma, and using the voices of recovering addicts.
Moving forward on those recommendations, however, will not be easy.
Community members may feel apprehensive about bringing more treatment centers into their neighborhoods, Dr. Martins said, because of the stigma associated with drug addiction.
She added that some addicts want to leave the borough for treatment.
Theres another complex finding related to this question is that theres also stigma among people that have an opioid abuse disorder to seek treatment; only a fourth of them will end up seeking treatment, Dr. Martins said.
Theres stigma among users and their family members and they dont want to be seen by their neighbors seeking treatment.
The analysis of overdoses by ZIP code revealed that while addiction is a problem across the island, more overdoses occurred on the central part of the island.
When we went into this, it was presented as a white middle-class problem that hit Staten Island, Patricia Wendt, one of the researchers, said.
But it didnt take us long to learn that its affecting people across all demographics in the island.
I think the important thing is that addiction doesnt discriminate.
But times change, and Mr. Palen is now taking a more antagonistic approach.
All Types Welcome is a condemnation of blood donation rules set by the Food and Drug Administration that prohibit most gay or bisexual men from giving; before donating, they have to forgo same-sex sexual encounters for at least a year, a contentious precaution resulting from concerns about H.I.V.
Its exclusion, and its ridiculous, and its discriminatory, Ms. Lepore said in an interview.
Mark Burg, the producer who has helped steer the Saw franchise, was even more blunt.
We want this policy changed, he said.
An F.D.A.
spokeswoman, Lyndsay Meyer, noted that the celibacy rule, enacted in 2015, replaced a more restrictive policy.
While acknowledging at the time that the change to a 12-month deferral was less than hoped for by some, the F.D.A.
considered this to be a first step, Ms. Meyer said, adding that studies are underway to help inform further changes to policy.
The Red Cross, the nations largest blood supplier, has also drawn fire for its approach to transgender donors.
Until recently, federal guidelines recommended that trans people be required to register at blood centers under the gender they were assigned at birth.
Photo

The Red Cross believes all potential blood donors should be treated with fairness, equality and respect, Jodi D. Sheedy, a Red Cross spokeswoman, said in an email.
She added, Accurate donor histories and medically supported donor deferral criteria are critical to blood supply safety.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Palen is one of Hollywoods savviest marketers, and his latest campaign reflects several trends, including a focus on diversity.
In the past, Mr. Palen has cast young women (most often white) as nurse mascots for the Saw blood drives.
Now we have different races, genders, ages and sexual orientations, he said.
Joining Ms. Lepore and Mr. Ross as twisted nurses are people like Nyakim Gatwech, a Sudanese model; a YouTube and Instagram star named Mykie; and the sexagenarian event producer Susanne Bartsch.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
While inclusion remains far from Hollywoods strength, many consumer brands have started to loudly ring the representation bell.
Last year, for instance, CoverGirl named its first cover boy and made a beauty blogger, Nura Afia, its first hijab-wearing cosmetics ambassador.
It is also notable that Mr. Palen is tapping into rage culture.
Hollywood marketers are mostly allergic to controversy, but nothing lights a fire on social media like indignation, and a growing number of advertisers are trying to spark thought-provoking discussions.
The North Face, for instance, indirectly references President Trumps plans for a Mexico border wall with its new Walls Are Meant for Climbing brand campaign.
The topical approach can backfire.
Just ask Pepsi and Kendall Jenner.
Its easy to be provocative, Mr. Palen said.
Its less easy to be provocative in a way that inspires people to see your movie.
The Saw nurses were an early example of what Hollywood types now like to call world building.
There are no major nurse characters in the movies (some of which are also not particularly bloody).
Rather, Mr. Palens creations are meant to add a layer of immersion for fans.
The first Saw nurse was a Lionsgate executive; Mr. Palen took her photo in his backyard and posted the image online to promote the blood drive.
Maybe a few horror fan sites covered it, he said.
There was no such thing as going viral back then.
In a snapshot of how powerful the internet has come as a marketing tool, Lionsgate now has roughly 420 million followers on platforms like Instagram, Facebook and Twitter.
To gain additional reach for the All Types Welcome effort, Mr. Palen recruited the eight social media stars.
Everyones making content, everyones a creator, everyone has a microphone, he said.
So to have the nurse campaign play in that space and have personalities feel some ownership in the campaign felt like a great way to evolve.
And no more backyard shoots for Mr. Palen, who took over a cavernous stage for two days  complete with a D.J.
and an open bar  this time around.
As the Pharrell Williams song Marilyn Monroe played toward the end of the second day, Ms. Lepore teetered on a stack of metallic boxes in white spike heels.
Sexy, fetish nurse doll is how Mr. Palen had described her look.
Amazing, he murmured, standing on tiptoe to take her picture.
When Mr. Palen was done, the 16 people in the room clapped, and Ms. Lepore did a little curtsy.
Nine droogs (and one alternate droog) gathered an hour and a half before showtime at New World Stages on a recent Friday night.
To a chorus of syncopated grunts, oohs and aahs, they began to warm up.
Most actors preparing to go onstage exercise their voices, do some stretching or Zen out with peace and quiet.
The unusual high-intensity warm-up for A Clockwork Orange, however, could rev up Floyd Mayweather for his next pay-per-view.
Photo

Jonno Davies, the shows 25-year-old lead, urged his castmates on through jumping jacks, squat thrusts, burpees, dips, push-ups, biceps work and other exercises, with no rest in between.
Then came yoga poses to cool down, as the Foo Fighters blared in the background.
Just two hours later, Mr. Davies, as the ultraviolent teenager Alex, would be leading the gang in onstage rapes and beatings in the theatrical adaptation of Anthony Burgesss classic 1962 novel, which opens in New York on Monday.
The 90-minute show, directed by Alexandra Spencer-Jones, made its debut in 2012 at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe, with later runs in Australia, Norway, Singapore and London.
Photo

Now Alex, who unmercifully pummels his way through young adulthood for sport before eventually finding that his angry impulses have been conditioned out of him, and his fellow denizens of the Korova Milkbar have arrived Off Broadway.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The most taxing part of being in the all-male cast may be the training.
But the results?
Sculpted physiques straight out of Mens Health magazine.
But bookmakers, backed by other researchers, counter that there is no clear evidence that the machine is any more addictive than other kinds of gambling  like the online casino, a product that is restricted in the United States but legal in Britain.
They warn that banning the machines, which are found only in British betting shops and provide more than half their profits, would lead to the loss of thousands of jobs.
For campaigners, a set of statistics published in August by the Gambling Commission, which regulates the British gambling industry, highlighted the urgency of the matter: It suggested that the number of British problem gamblers, or people whose lives are damaged by their gambling, had risen by more than 53 percent between 2012 and 2015, from 280,000 to 430,000.
The bookmakers, though, pointed to a line in the report that said the rate of problem gambling had remained statistically stable, because both figures are small compared with the British population as a whole.
Photo

The history of fixed odds betting terminals is under less dispute.
They were introduced into British betting shops in 2001, at a time when the government of Tony Blair, then the prime minister, was accelerating the gambling industrys transformation, as the academic David Runciman has argued, from one that was permitted only to meet demand into one that was allowed to stimulate it.
Today, there are roughly 33,000 such machines spread across Britains 9,000 betting shops.
They collectively provided a profit of more than 1.8 billion last year, far more than those outlets made from bets on horse races, dog races and soccer matches combined.
Roughly half of the terminals are supplied by a subsidiary of a company headed by the American businessman Ronald Perelman, who is friends with President Trump.
The configuration of the machines themselves is unique to Britain, partly because their settings are illegal in some other countries.
The machines allow users to place bets of up to 100, once every 20 seconds, on computerized casino games such as roulette.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

While researchers are divided on the subject, many gambling addicts say that the machines singular features make them uniquely addictive and uniquely harmful, both accelerating the rate of loss and decreasing the waiting time between bets.
Its a gamblers dream, said Jason Haddigan, a former addict who wrote about his decades-long addiction in a new book, How and Why I Conned the Bookies.
You get the buzz straightaway and you get hooked straightaway.
Bookmakers dispute these claims.
There is no link between gaming machines in betting shops and problem gambling, said Gary Follis, a spokesman for the Association for British Bookmakers, citing the Gambling Commissions recent report, which suggested that problem gamblers tend to use several different gambling products.
Bookmakers also argue that the campaign against fixed odds betting terminals is backed by people who make money from other kinds of gambling, and say that banning the machines would force many shops to close, leading to job losses.
That argument strikes campaigners as myopic, given the social damage they say the machines are already causing to some of Britains poorest communities.
Figures from the Campaign for Fairer Gambling suggest that there are twice as many such terminals in the countrys 55 most deprived areas as there are in the 115 richest districts (which contain the same population), and more than double the losses.
Socially, its decimating communities, said Carolyn Harris, a Labour Party lawmaker who heads a parliamentary group that discusses the machines.
The less money you put in these machines, the more disposable income people will have to put into other businesses, she said, adding that banning them would boost the economy and create employment.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Research commissioned by the Campaign for Fairer Gambling in 2015 suggested that for every 5,000 jobs that might be created by the machines, a further 25,000 jobs would be lost.
Campaigners want to ban the terminals  or at the very least to lower the maximum bet to 2.
But the betting industry has so far fought such a successful countercampaign that Parliament has yet to add any new restrictions.
(It emerged this month that members of Parliament had accepted a greater amount of gifts and hospitality from Ladbrokes Coral, Britains biggest betting company, than from any other source in the past year.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Part of the problem facing Parliament is that different investigations into the machines addictiveness have drawn different conclusions, making it easy for bookmakers to argue that there is not enough evidence to support changing the law.
A 2007 survey by the National Center for Social Research showing that the machines were the most common cause of gambling addiction in Britain was contradicted by other surveys the organization conducted in 2010 and 2012.
Most controversially, the waters were also muddied by a 2014 report commissioned by GambleAware, Britains largest gambling addiction charity, that said more research was needed to discern a causal link between gambling machines and gambling addiction.
Critics of the gambling industry say these discrepancies have been subtly encouraged by the industry itself.
Photo

After interviewing 67 stakeholders in the British gambling industry, Rebecca Cassidy, a professor at Goldsmiths, University of London, concluded that academic research into gambling was a second-rate field because of the proliferation of industry-financed research projects.
To comply with British law, the countrys bookmakers must voluntarily donate money each year for research into and treatment of problem gambling.
But most do this solely through GambleAware, which funded the controversial 2014 research into fixed odds betting terminals.
As a result, GambleAware is now the largest single source of financing for British gambling research, while simultaneously attracting claims that it is too close to the companies it is supposed to be examining impartially.
The Charity Commission, which regulates British charities, has ruled that there is no conflict of interest to the way that GambleAware commissions research.
The charity itself also says that it operates independently of the industry, and works to research guidelines set by another regulatory body.
Theres no question of money coming in with strings attached, Iain Corby, GambleAwares deputy chief executive, said in an interview, adding later, We are the good guys.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But the charity has attracted criticism because until recently, roughly half of its trustees were representatives of the gambling industry.
The government is due to release a long-awaited review of fixed odds betting terminals in October, and campaigners hope it will recommend increased restrictions on their use.
Yet others, including Mr. Franklin, say the government needs to reform not just machine gambling, but also the industry as a whole.
The controversial machines are just one part of a massive problem, he said.
One part of the cradle-to-grave electronic gambling extraction business that is causing untold unhappiness in this country.
The Americas have generally led the world in eliminating diseases for which vaccines exist.
In this hemisphere, smallpox was eliminated in 1971, polio in 1994, rubella in 2015 and measles in 2016.
(The diseases are sometimes reintroduced, as measles was at Disneyland in 2014, but outbreaks are usually brought quickly under control.)
Also this week, the Presidents Malaria Initiative said it would expand its work to new countries in West and Central Africa, protecting 90 million more people.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The initiative, founded in 2005 as part of the United States Agency for International Development, has been a major force in driving down worldwide malaria deaths by about 40 percent in the past decade.
The disease most often kills young children and pregnant women.
The expansion in Cameroon, Ivory Coast, Niger, Sierra Leone and Burkina Faso was made possible because Congress increased funding for the initiative in fiscal year 2017, a representative said.
In his speech to the United Nations on Tuesday, President Trump praised the malaria initiative and the Presidents Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief as examples of leadership in humanitarian assistance by the United States.
A combination of aid agencies, drug companies and governments also announced that a new three-in-one antiretroviral cocktail to treat H.I.V.
would soon be available to 92 countries, including virtually all of Africa, for about $75 a year.
The new AIDS cocktail is the first available in poor countries to contain dolutegravir, which is widely used in wealthy countries because it is highly effective and has few side effects.
The pill also contains lamivudine, an older but still effective drug, and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, another modern drug whose inclusion years ago in drug cocktails for poor countries lowered the risk of side effects and resistance.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Almost 37 million people in the world have H.I.V., according to Unaids, the U.N.s AIDS-fighting agency, but fewer than 20 million are now on antiretroviral medicine, which not only saves their lives but prevents them from passing on the disease.
Photo

More than half of all American teenagers are getting vaccinated against human papillomavirus, and the rate is rising over time, according to a new report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Sixty percent of adolescents received one or more doses of the HPV vaccine in 2016, an increase of 4 percentage points from 2015, researchers found.
About a decade ago, the figure was less than 30 percent.
Were really encouraged to see this finding, said Shannon Stokley, a co-author of the report and associate director for science at the Immunization Services Division of the C.D.C.
The vaccine protects against strains of HPV that can cause cancers of the cervix, penis, anus and back of the throat.
Close to half of all Americans are infected at any given time, and nearly 32,000 get cancer from the virus each year.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

About 90 percent of those cases could be prevented with the vaccine, according to the C.D.C.
The agency used to recommend three doses, but new guidelines introduced last year amended that to two doses for adolescents younger than age 15.
For months, Mr. McCain has lamented a Senate legislative process that avoided hearings or formal bill-drafting procedures and excluded Democrats.
On Friday, he said those tactics were intolerable.
We should not be content to pass health care legislation on a party-line basis, as Democrats did when they rammed Obamacare through Congress in 2009, Mr. McCain said.
If we do so, our success could be as short-lived as theirs when the political winds shift, as they regularly do.
Photo

A bill of this magnitude requires a bipartisan approach, Mr. McCain added.
Those concerns were compounded by the decision of Republican leaders to press forward with a vote next week before the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office could complete a full analysis of the Graham-Cassidy legislation.
The budget office is expected to provide a preliminary fiscal assessment early in the week, but it indicated that it would not be able to complete an analysis of the bills effects on health insurance coverage or premiums by Sept. 30.
That date is critical because Republicans, who hold 52 seats in the Senate, have until the end of this month to make use of special budget rules that would allow them to pass a repeal bill in the Senate with only a simple majority, rather than 60 votes.
If Republicans could get 50 votes, Vice President Mike Pence would break the tie in their favor.
Of course, Im disappointed, Mr. Cassidy said in an interview, but that doesnt mean that Im going to stop working for those folks who cant afford their premiums.
We are still working.
We are still hoping.
Mr. Graham, mindful of their longstanding relationship, was gracious.
My friendship with John McCain is not based on how he votes, Mr. Graham said, but respect for how hes lived his life and the person he is.
President Trump, who has promised to scrap President Barack Obamas signature domestic achievement, said late Friday he would not abandon his goal.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Maybe were going to do it now  its a little tougher without McCains vote, Ill be honest, he said Friday night at a campaign rally for Senator Luther Strange, Republican of Alabama, who is locked in a tough primary runoff for his seat.
The most well be is one or two votes short, Mr. Trump said.
You cant quit when you have one or two votes short.
You cant do it.
And those people are not going to be liked by the communities that they come from.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
A spokeswoman for the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, declined to comment on whether he would press forward with a vote.
Democrats have vowed that if the repeal legislation could be killed, they would press to resume bipartisan negotiations on legislation to stabilize health insurance markets under the Affordable Care Act.
Republican leaders squelched those talks, led by Senators Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, and Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington, as they pushed for passage of a full repeal bill.
John McCain shows the same courage in Congress that he showed when he was a naval aviator, said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader.
I have assured Senator McCain that as soon as repeal is off the table, we Democrats are intent on resuming the bipartisan process.
If the bill dies at the hands of Senators McCain, Paul and Collins, it would be another blow to Mr. Trump, who has tried to pressure Republicans to fall in line.
It would also be another setback for a party that now controls the White House and both houses of Congress, but has not been able to produce any major legislative achievements.
Republican lawmakers have promised for seven years to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, but they have found that verbally assailing the health law is far easier than actually undoing it, even with a president who shares their goal.
Its a loss for Republicans, said Representative Mark Walker of North Carolina, the chairman of the conservative Republican Study Committee.
I think were all going to be held accountable to some degree.
What that means in next years elections, I dont know.
But this is going to bite for a while.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Graham-Cassidy bill would take much of the money provided under the Affordable Care Act and send it to the states, with vast discretion over how to use it for health care or coverage.
The bill has been met in the last few days with a torrent of criticism from consumer groups, doctors, hospitals, insurance companies, governors and state Medicaid officials.
Photo

Under the bill, states would have more authority over how to use federal funds, but most states  including Arizona  would receive less money under the bill than under the Affordable Care Act, according to studies by the Kaiser Family Foundation and health policy consulting firms.
The bill would also give states the ability to opt out of insurance regulations under the health law.
States could seek federal waivers that would allow insurers to charge higher premiums to people with pre-existing medical conditions or to omit certain benefits that they are now required to provide, such as maternity care or mental health care.
Republican leaders will now likely have to change an opponents mind, but if anything, more opponents could emerge, with Ms. Murkowski on the top of the list.
Alaskas governor, Bill Walker, an independent, publicly opposes the bill and has joined nine other governors in signing a letter urging the Senate to reject the proposal.
In an interview, Mr. Walker said he did not believe any special accommodation could be reached for his state, because the overall structure was so damaging to Alaska.
He said he had communicated his concerns extensively to Ms. Murkowski.
Alaska would fare very, very poorly, he said.
Nothing has been brought to my attention that would increase my comfort level.
A spokeswoman for Ms. Murkowski, Karina Petersen, said the senator is studying the matter.
Senator Murkowski is still focused on how the bill will impact Alaska, specifically, Ms. Petersen said.
Shes continuing to gather data and is looking at the details of the bill to determine whats best for her state.
Doug Ducey of Arizona, a Republican, supports the Graham-Cassidy proposal, and Mr. McCain had made a point of emphasizing that he was keenly interested in the views of his states governor when contemplating whether to vote for repeal legislation.
But Mr. Duceys position was not enough to sway Mr. McCain.
I take no pleasure in announcing my opposition, Mr. McCain said.
Far from it.
The bills authors are my dear friends, and I think the world of them.
I know they are acting consistently with their beliefs and sense of what is best for the country.
So am I.

Mr. McCain said that if the repeal attempt failed, he hoped the leaders of the Senate health committee would resume their efforts to devise a short-term bipartisan solution to some of the problems plaguing insurance markets under the Affordable Care Act.
Mr. Alexander and Ms. Murray have been working on a bill to stabilize markets by providing money for subsidies paid to insurers so they can reduce out-of-pocket costs for low-income people.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Alexander, the chairman of the Senate health committee, and Ms. Murray, the top Democrat on the panel, held four hearings in two weeks and were nearing an agreement on legislation.
But their efforts were derailed when the White House and Senate Republican leaders pushed hard for a vote on the Graham-Cassidy bill, in the face of opposition from every Democrat in the Senate.
Photo

Q. I take mass transit every day.
Would wearing a glove (or holding something) to create a barrier between me and the stainless steel I grab onto every day be effective at reducing the potential for picking up germs?
Yes, using some kind of barrier to avoid getting germs on your hands will help prevent germ transmission, researchers say.
But its not clear that such protection will really make much difference.
Dr. W. Ian Lipkin, a professor of epidemiology at the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University, would like someone to invent what hes dubbed the subway condom  something you could slip over your hand to protect against germs.
Dr. Lipkin, who has researched the germs in New York City, always uses a glove or other physical barrier when he grasps transit poles.
There are all sorts of bacteria and viruses that sit on surfaces, he said.
He notes that outdoor surfaces, like mailbox handles, are sterilized by the suns UV rays, but there is no such natural protection deep underground.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Short of a subway condom, Dr. Lipkin suggests that people wash their hands as soon as possible after touching such public surfaces, and keep their hands away from their eyes or mouth in the meantime.
He said hes also resorted to wrapping his elbow around poles, instead of his hands, because hes less likely to infect himself from his elbow.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Curtis Huttenhower, a computational biologist at the Harvard T.H.
Chan School of Public Health, agrees with Dr. Lipkins advice but doesnt worry much himself about picking up germs from public surfaces.
In his own research on the Boston T system, Dr. Huttenhower said he found the kinds of germs that are typically found in any communal environment, like an office.
The White House and Senate leaders are now in an intensive final push to repeal the Affordable Care Act by September 30.
After that, under Senate rules, they will need 60 votes, which they acknowledge is an impossibility.
Senator Graham said in a statement on Thursday that the legislation was gaining momentum and support because it would send money and power back to the states, and closer to patients, to deliver quality health care.
The legislation would turn over more than $1 trillion that would have been spent on the law known as Obamacare over the next seven years  everything from the funds for the expansion of Medicaid to the subsidies to help people buy private insurance  to states as block grants with very few strings attached.
They would then use the money to set up their own health care programs.
Congress would have to reauthorize the money after 2026 or it would go away.
The decisions about individual mandates, mandated benefits, and all the other decisions the ACA moved to Washington are best made at the state level by governors who understand the unique needs of their states, said Gov.
Asa Hutchinson of Arkansas, a Republican.
Arkansas expanded Medicaid under Obamacare, and would lose roughly $6 billion under the bill, but Governor Hutchinson supports the legislation nonetheless.
Graham-Cassidy is putting federal spending on a budget, he said.
That is the fiscal discipline the federal government and states both need to ensure the sustainability of Medicaid and other state health care programs.
Like previous Republican proposals, the bill would also cancel the federal governments commitment to the open-ended funding of the traditional Medicaid program, capping an entitlement for the poor and disabled that now covers one in five Americans.
States could choose to take some of that Medicaid money in a block grant too.
Winners and Losers

One of the most striking things about the bill is how it redistributes federal money among states.
Some states that have invested a lot in expanding coverage under Obamacare (many of them Democratic) would lose big to others (mostly Republican) that have fiercely resisted going along with the law and are hostile to federal spending in general.
Photo

The biggest spoils would go to Texas, which refused to expand Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act and had the nations highest uninsured rate last year at 16.6 percent.
The health data firm Avalere estimated that Texas would receive an additional $35 billion by 2026 under the bills formula.
California, which has expanded coverage to an additional 3.7 million under the A.C.A.
would get $78 billion less through 2026 than under current law, and New York would see $45 billion less, Avalere found.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In Mississippi, which Avalere calculated would reap an extra $6 billion through 2026, some public health officials were skeptical that the state would even want the money.
Mississippi has one of the nations sickest populations and has historically resisted federal funding for social welfare programs.
After the Affordable Care Act became law, Gov.
Phil Bryant, a Republican, rejected not only the chance to expand Medicaid but also his own state insurance commissioners attempt to create a state-based insurance marketplace with federal funds offered under the law.
Year after year we have fought to get our policy makers to take money from the feds, said Roy Mitchell, executive director of the Mississippi Health Advocacy Program.
I could just see another scenario like that with this bill.
These states that would see more money are just rife with ideologues that do not want to see this specific population get any kind of opportunity for affordable coverage.
Thats my stark reality.
In an emailed statement on Wednesday, Governor Bryant said his priority if the Senate bill passed would be to implement a system of health care that best fit the specific needs of Mississippis most vulnerable citizens, and did not endanger coverage for those with pre-existing conditions.
In Iowa, state officials have already filed a formal application to opt out of the Obamacare insurance market next year.
The insurance commissioner, Doug Ommen, said he liked the idea of a health care block grant even though under the bills formula, Iowa stood to lose some federal funding.
The proposal he submitted to the Trump administration would use the federal money that helps cover lower-income peoples deductibles to instead provide more premium subsidies and help insurers cover their most expensive customers costs.
It could be an early example of something states might try to do under the Senate bill, if the money was sufficient.
I think we would make it work here, Mr. Ommen said of the bill.
We are a proponent of flexibility.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In Alabama, another winner under the Senate bill, Jim Carnes, policy director at Arise Citizens Policy Project, an advocacy group, described the bill as a bait and switch for the state.
The early gains from the redistribution will take a nose-dive 10 years out and we will lose billions, he said.
No state is a winner in the end.
Remaking Medicaid

The bill would make the most sweeping changes to Medicaid since the programs inception in 1965.
It goes farther than previous Senate proposals, and a bill passed by the House in May, by eliminating the expansion of Medicaid set up by the Affordable Care Act, which has extended the programs coverage to 11 million more lower-income people, and putting the money into block grants starting in 2020.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The states could use that money for a variety of health care expenses, including creating high-risk pools to cover particularly expensive patients, to create a health care exchange run by the state, or to subsidize the cost of premiums or out of pocket costs for people with private insurance.
Photo

In all, Medicaid now covers 74 million Americans, most of them poor but also middle class people with disabilities and in nursing homes.
The federal government shares the cost of Medicaid with states, and has traditionally paid between 50 and 75 percent of the costs, with poor states receiving more money.
The commitment was open-ended; the government covered its share no matter the cost, or how many people enrolled.
The federal government picked up the entire cost of the Medicaid expansion at first, with that share ultimately tapering to 90 percent.
Like previous Republican proposals, Graham-Cassidy would cap traditional Medicaid spending on a per-person basis, based on a complex formula.
That provision worries many hospital systems.
These funding reductions are unsustainable for many Ohio hospitals, said John Palmer, a spokesman for the Ohio Hospital Association, adding that nearly 20 percent of hospitals in the state already spend more than they take in.
Its hard to overstate the potential effects.
Medicaid now provides medical care to four out of 10 American children, and covers the costs of nearly half of all births in the United States, as well as care for two-thirds of people in nursing homes and also for 10 million children and adults with physical or mental disabilities.
It would unleash massive health care debates in every state capital, said Mr. Levitt, at Kaiser.
All these tough decisions would no longer be on Congress plate but on the plates of governors.
Consumer Protections

The proposal is much more aggressive than some of the other Republican plans in rolling back the Affordable Care Acts consumer protections, say health care lawyers and other experts who have studied the bill.
It would allow states to stop requiring insurers to cover essential health care needs like hospitalization, prescription drugs, maternity care and mental health treatment.
Senator Bill Cassidy of Louisiana, a co-author of the legislation, has insisted that it would continue to provide vital protections to people with chronic illnesses so they would be able to find health insurance.
But lawyers say the bill would allow states an almost unfettered ability to permit insurance companies to charge someone with, say, cancer or diabetes much higher rates  or to exclude certain expensive conditions like pregnancy or addiction from the plans they offer.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Though it is unclear how many would do so, states would be able to waive the existing rules much more easily because the bill would only require a state to explain how it intended to cover people with pre-existing conditions.
Its not at all required that their explanation or plan meets any kind of standard, said Richard J. Zall, a partner at the law firm Proskauer.
Moreover, unlike previous proposals, the bill would pave the way for insurers to adjust their prices every time someone renewed a policy, based on the individuals changing health status.
People could sign up for a plan and see the price skyrocket if they developed a potentially serious condition like cancer, said Karen Pollitz, a senior fellow at the Kaiser foundation.
Even the way people bought insurance would change in states that relied on the current federal insurance marketplace, which allows people to buy subsidized plans through HealthCare.gov.
It would be dismantled in 2020.
The federal exchanges go away, said Timothy S. Jost, an emeritus professor at Washington and Lee University law school who opposes to the bill.
Instead of setting up their own website so people can shop for a plan, the state could use the money to set up high-risk insurance pools for people with expensive chronic conditions or pay hospitals and doctors directly for care.
But even with the best of intentions, the time frame is very short for states to come up with an alternative plan, he said.
The biggest problem is how are states are going to do this in two years, Mr. Jost said.
Photo

Add a new potential ill to the list of problems linked to air pollution: kidney disease.
Previous studies have linked high levels of the fine particulate matter known as PM 2.5 to cardiovascular disease and stroke.
A new analysis, in The Journal of the American Society of Nephrology, followed 2,482,737 veterans for an average of eight and a half years.
The Department of Veterans Affairs database includes information on glomerular filtration rate, or G.F.R., a measure of kidney function.
Using data on air pollution from NASA and the Environmental Protection Agency, the researchers found that increases in PM 2.5 corresponded directly with decreases in G.F.R., indicating worsening kidney function.
PM 2.5 particles are small enough to enter the bloodstream where they make their way to the kidneys, which are especially prone to injury from pollutants.
The scientists calculate that unhealthy pollution levels lead to an annual increase of 44,793 cases of chronic kidney disease, and 2,438 cases of end-stage kidney disease requiring dialysis.
Even levels below those considered safe increased risk.
The senior author, Dr. Ziyad Al-Aly, an assistant professor of medicine at Washington University in St. Louis, said that diabetes and hypertension are still the major drivers of kidney disease.
But, he said, Air pollution is a previously unrecognized factor for kidney disease and kidney disease progression.
Dating violence can be digital.
Parents should consider talking with their teenagers about abusive relationships, and a conversation about digital mistreatment would be a good place to start.
In a recent survey, more than half of adolescent girls and boys had dated someone who tried to monitor or control them by texting so frequently that it made the recipient uncomfortable, expecting immediate responses, asking for their passwords, or tracking their location or social activity.
The same report also found that nearly half of teenagers had been in a relationship with a partner who used technology against them, either to spread rumors, post embarrassing or hurtful messages, or make threats.
And roughly a third experienced sexual coercion via digital means: they were pressured to have sex, received unwanted sexual images or were urged to send them, or had their nude pictures sent to others without permission.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In talking with our teenagers about coercive relationships, we should acknowledge that if someone wants to know what you are doing all the time, that can feel like a really close relationship but that healthy romances are grounded in trust and support, not spying or intimidation.
Further, we can tell our teenagers that we stand ready to help if they ever feel pushed around by a boyfriend or girlfriend, either online or in person.
In my experience, adolescents are greatly relieved when we remind them to alert an adult if they are concerned about their own or a friends health and safety.
Digital dating violence falls squarely into this category as, not surprisingly, it has been linked in some studies to physical and sexual victimization, especially against girls.
Relationships can become round-the-clock affairs.
Its hard to imagine that anything could up the intensity of a teenagers first love, but digital technology seems to have done the job.
When adolescents in my practice talk about their happy romances, Im often amazed at how completely their lives are saturated by them.
Teenage couples awaken together by text or call, communicate  hopefully not while driving  on the way to school, connect in person during the day while still texting, FaceTime through their homework, then virtually snuggle online before falling asleep.
On more than one occasion Ive found myself listening to the details of a teenagers day thinking that my husband and I, except for when we traveled together before we had children, have never been as completely intertwined as many young couples are now.
Most adolescents keep up their friendships and activities even when enjoying healthy, albeit wall-to-wall, romances.
Still, its important to appreciate what it means for a teenager when an omnipresent relationship ends.
In addition to contending with heartbreak, the suddenly single teenager has to find a new way to begin and end each day and to fill a lot of the time in between.
Lovelorn teenagers usually bounce back pretty quickly, but parents shouldnt underestimate the scale of the loss in the short term.
Technology adds some new twists to the age-old roller coaster of teenage romance.
Our adolescents may know more than we do about the online world, but we know more about the romantic one.
Even if their love lives dont look like the ones we remember, we still owe it to teenagers to find ways to offer our support and guidance.
But hospice should actually be thought of as game on  now its time to really start taking care of the patient.
And contrary to the assumption that hospice equals death, data show that early referral to hospice actually improves life expectancy.
My patient and her family agreed to give hospice a try.
Within weeks, they were singing its praises.
The hospice nurse visited weekly and whenever a clinical situation arose  a fever, pain, trouble breathing, a fall,  the nurse texted me and we could quickly figure out what needed to be done, and how to do it with the least hassle for the patient.
Even though we werent pursuing curative therapy  her cardiac and respiratory disease were grave and irreversible  we were able to put out the little fires before they became big fires.
The goal was always maximizing comfort.
In some ways, hospice care struck me as the original concierge medicine, where a whole team of players dedicated itself to the patients every need.
This was the closest we could get to ideal medical care.
It didnt escape me, though, that this level of care could only be feasible for a handful of patients.
If every one of my hundreds of patients had my cellphone number and texted every time something came up, the system would collapse under its own weight.
Still, I was intensely grateful that this patient remained comfortable, happy, pain-free and able to remain in her home with her loving family.
Just as the data predicted, she was living far longer than any of us would have expected, given her congestive heart failure and her severe respiratory disease.
It was now 18 months since we started the hospice care.
The paradox is that a patient can qualify for hospice care only if he or she has a life expectancy of six months or less, if the disease runs its normal course.
My patient certainly fit that definition, but as we focused intensely on making her more comfortable, she was living longer.
Every six months I recertified that my patient indeed had end-stage cardiac and respiratory disease.
And although she was clearly frailer at each certification, she remained comfortable and pain-free.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Most patients, sadly, get referred to hospice only in the very last days or weeks of their illness, which explains the misperception that nothing is done for the patient other than fluff the pillows on the way to death.
Even for patients with end-stage cancer, the earlier they are referred to palliative care (care focused on patient comfort), the longer they usually live.
These thoughts circled in my head as I slogged through the torrential rain toward my patients home.
Id asked her daughter if maybe we could reschedule for the next day, when it would be less monsoon-like.
I think you should probably come today, her daughter replied.
Her voice was straightforward and unhurried, but as soon as she said that I angled my umbrella into the downpour and didnt lift it until I arrived at her building, 20 sopping blocks later.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Their apartment was brimming with ferns, vines and succulents.
It was almost as if theyd recreated the jungle of their home country in the concrete of New York City.
In the midst of this verdant lair, my patient reclined comfortably on the couch, her face radiating warmth and welcome amid the greenery and medical equipment surrounding her.
She gave me a big hug and invited me onto the couch next to her.
A breathing mask from a nearby BiPAP machine covered her mouth and nose, but she could still talk.
It was obvious how proud she was of her two daughters who sat nearby.
Sitting there, it dawned on me that my patient had won the lottery.
Shed lived a long and happy life, with a loving extended family in two countries.
Her final days were being spent on her own couch, among her plants and family, her favorite TV shows and music.
After 45 minutes visiting, I kissed her goodbye and shared hugs with the daughters.
I headed back out into the rain, nursing a sadness and a relief at the same time.
That evening her daughter called me.
Her mother had died peacefully on the couch, just hours after Id left.
The moment froze as the solemnity of her words sank in.
Yes, wed been expecting this for more than a year, but now it had actually happened.
Even as we spoke, the hospice team was taking care of the logistics so that the family  and I  could focus on the emotions of the moment, and not the overwhelming details.
I think she needed one more visit from her doctor before she could go, her daughter said.
We both exhaled long sighs  wed been taking care of her mother together for two decades and now she had quietly bowed out.
Once again, I felt the strange churning of melancholy and joy.
We rarely think of death as a moment of joy, but this was certainly one.
Even in my sadness, I could feel the warmth of happiness for my patient that shed been able to end her life cradled in love and comfort.
She certainly did win the lottery.
I hope we all have that chance.
Such exchanges are the reason Hackett traveled 8,000 miles from Australia to Arizona last month to stay with Phelps and his wife, Nicole.
It wasnt his first visit.
He has used their home as something of a halfway house, joking that he spends so much time with them that he is getting mail there.
His life in Australia, where distance swimmers can become celebrities on a par with N.F.L.
quarterbacks in the United States, started careening out of control several years ago.
In February, it derailed in a very public fashion.
He visited his parents Gold Coast home, and his father, Neville, called the police to report that Hackett had been drinking and had suffered a mental breakdown that sent him into a rage.
The Olympian was taken to a detention center in handcuffs  a scene that was broadcast across Australia and set off a social media frenzy.
He was released without being charged, but his family was unable to find him the next morning.
Alarmed, Neville Hackett stepped before television cameras, described his son as a missing person in urgent need of help, and implored him to come home.
Grant, let us know where you are, he said.
We love you and we want to help you.
Phelps followed the drama from Paris, where he and Nicole spent Valentines Day.
He learned about what was happening in Australia through a text message from Allison Schmitt, another Olympic swimmer.
Photo

Phelps, who considers Hackett one of his dearest friends, sent a flurry of texts to him and then paced in his hotel room while he waited to hear back.
Nicole Phelps recalled her husband saying several times, with increasing urgency, We have to convince him to come home with us.
Hackett soon contacted his family, saying he was safe and simply hiding from the humiliation.
Phelps could empathize with Hackett in a way few others could.
Along with his 28 Olympic medals, Phelps accrued two arrests for driving under the influence  the second one after the police stopped him for going almost twice the speed limit on a road in Baltimore, his hometown.
He had also been photographed holding a bong at a private party, an image that ended up in a British tabloid.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After the second D.U.I.
arrest, in 2014, Phelps spent eight weeks at the Meadows, an Arizona treatment center, to deal with the anxiety and depression that he had tried to overcome on his own after the 2004, 2008 and 2012 Olympics.
Recognizing how difficult it is for many people to recognize their vulnerabilities and reach out for help, Phelps has devoted himself to unraveling the stigma of mental illness.
I want to be able to get out in public and talk and say, Yes, Ive done these great things in the pool, but Im also a human,  Phelps said, sweeping his gaze across the restaurant.
Im going through the same struggles as a lot of the people in this room.
Phelps has started some public speaking on the topic and has become an informal counselor to the stars, lending an ear to the golfer Tiger Woods after his arrest in May on charges of driving under the influence.
A toxicology report revealed no alcohol in Woodss system, but rather a mix of four prescription drugs and the active ingredient in marijuana.
I feel like thats a massive scream for help, Phelps said.
Photo

Over the summer, Phelps said, he met an 11-year-old boy in California who had appeared in a documentary about anxiety.
The boy was a swimmer, and he said he had wrestled with suicidal thoughts the year before.
Phelps told the boy about the days he spent curled up in bed, literally wanting to die, after his second D.U.I.
arrest.
At the end of the conversation, Phelps said, the boy told him, I have more in common with Michael Phelps than I ever thought.
Hackett, a rapt listener, said, Thats awesome.
A Star Needs Help

From 1997 to 2007, despite a collapsed lung and a bout of mononucleosis, Hackett was unbeaten in the 1,500 freestyle and also set world records in the 200 and 800 freestyles.
He won back-to-back Olympic gold medals in the 1,500 and missed a third one in the event by just over one second.
After he retired from the sport, Hacketts life resembled his freestyle stroke: He appeared to be effortlessly gliding to glory, but beneath the surface propelling himself forward was becoming almost too much to bear.
He was married to the entertainer Candice Alley, and their twins  a daughter, Charlize, and a son, Jagger  arrived the year after Hackett stopped swimming.
He became a successful entrepreneur and hedge-fund investor, earned a masters degree and did broadcasting work on the side.
At the same time, he said, he was using alcohol and sleeping pills to quell anxiety and depression.
Its hard when youve done something that many people see as extraordinary, but as a person youre not, Hackett said.
Its almost like youre separated from the pack.
Youre having to try to grow as a person and work out who you are in this really difficult set of circumstances, under a microscope.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

By 2014, his marriage had disintegrated and his substance use was leading to headline-generating behavior, including wandering dazed and barely dressed through a Melbourne hotel lobby.
His family pleaded with him to seek professional help, and Hackett spent a month at the Meadows, the same treatment facility Phelps entered later that year.
But Hackett was not ready then to open up and acknowledge his weaknesses.
He was trying to conquer his anxiety and depression as if they were swimming rivals.
You want to push through and almost win in a way, Hackett said.
When thats how you think, its hard to step back and say: Wait, this isnt about sports or winning and losing.
Its about my life.
After the February episode, Hackett knew he needed more help.
The day after he resurfaced, he contacted Phelps and agreed to fly to the United States.
He also decided that after stopping in Arizona he would enter a recovery center in Malibu, Calif. Phelps drove him the 400 miles to the facility.
Twice since his monthlong treatment, Hackett has traveled to spend time at the Phelpses home.
Michaels been there and he understands, so its almost like you can plug right into that support, Hackett said.
Photo

He and Phelps first crossed paths at the 2000 Olympics in Sydney.
Phelps, then 15, marveled at how big swimming was in Australia and how much attention was paid to Hacketts success.
As Phelpss own fame grew, he gravitated toward Australian swimmers, who could understand the scrutiny he faced better than most of his American teammates.
He and Hackett found that personal relationships, even the simplest ones, could become a minefield for anyone with a measure of fame.
It has been years since either of them has had a chance to make a first impression, because people assume they already know celebrities.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
I dont think you change, Hackett said, I think the world around you changes more than anything else.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As Hackett and Phelps acquired agents and sponsors who burnished their public images, they became almost passive participants in their development.
You have people telling you what to do, what to say, how to act, where to go  giving you constant advice, Hackett said.
Its almost like you dont have to think for yourself.
You lose a sense of your own identity in all that.
Hackett also felt a piece of himself slip away when his marriage ended and the child custody hearings began.
You go through a situation where you see your kids pretty much every day, the household is busy, its chaotic, and thats what youre used to and you love it, Hackett said.
Then, all of the sudden, I remember moving into this really nice place and sitting on the couch at night and going, This stinks.
You feel like you have everything, but you have nothing.
Phelps, who had been listening intently, let out a deep sigh.
He said he could not imagine being a part-time father to Boomer, now 16 months old, and the child that he and Nicole are expecting early next year.
Ive been thinking what youve gone through, what Tigers gone through, being divorced and not having the freedom to see your children whenever you want, Phelps said.
Its heartbreaking.
Woods, 41, who has been sidelined from golf by a back injury, recently spent time in a clinic, receiving inpatient treatment to help him manage pain medications.
Phelps contacted Woods through a mutual friend, the Golf Channel analyst Notah Begay III, who was Woodss teammate at Stanford.
A recovering alcoholic, Begay had reached out to Phelps around the time he sought help at the Meadows.
Their first phone conversation lasted two hours.
Begay said Phelps was almost uniquely qualified to support Woods.
Michael can provide honest and direct feedback, and thats what athletes of their caliber need the most, Begay said.
Athletes at their level of accomplishment, they have 100 people lined up around the corner trying to sell something to them or do something for them, and its hard to filter out, to decide, who is looking out for their best interests.
Photo

Describing their conversations as on and off, Phelps said he took cues from Woods on how much they would discuss.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its better now, Phelps said, because I feel like theres more of a comfort level.
And while Phelps keeps an eye on others, his wife is helping him find alternative forms of counseling that might accommodate his frequent travels.
Together, Nicole Phelps said, they have discovered groups that offer therapy by video links and even by text or email.
Its more affordable and accessible for more people, she wrote in a text message.
I honestly have personally been encouraging friends and family to utilize the services because of the ease and cost.
A Comfort Zone

Phelps had just finished telling Hackett the story about the boy in California when a diner asked Phelps to record a birthday greeting for her son.
After he obliged, she turned her smartphone toward Hackett, who said, Happy birthday, and gday from Australia.
This sort of attention is what Hackett came here to avoid.
I just feel different  more balanced  when I get out of the fishbowl in Australia, he said.
There are few places where Phelps and Hackett feel more at ease than at Scottsdale National, a golf course contoured from the McDowell Mountains that offers sweeping views of Phoenix and a wellspring of tranquillity.
One morning when they played last month, Phelps and Hackett had the course to themselves, and the only noise competing with the birdsong was the country and hip-hop music emanating from their cart.
Phelps carded an 84, lowering his handicap to single digits.
Hackett, who doesnt play much golf at home, shot 103.
A few days earlier, he broke 100 for the first time.
In a sharply worded response, a lawyer for the nursing home contested the agencys findings, saying that its staff had been constantly monitoring residents and that there was no indication based on actual conditions that a 911 call, or an evacuation, was necessary before residents began to fall ill.
Eight of the residents died that day, either at the home, known as the Rehabilitation Center at Hollywood Hills, or at Memorial Regional Hospital.
More than 100 were taken to Memorial and other hospitals, and many have now been moved to new nursing homes.
Local authorities said that a ninth former resident died on Tuesday, but the medical examiner has not yet determined whether the heat played a role in the death of that resident, Carlos Canal, 93.
According to the agencys order suspending the Centers license, issued on Wednesday, the facilitys medical records were replete with late entries, meaning updates that were supposed to describe medical indicators such as blood pressure and temperature at a certain point in time, but were added later.
The facility also entered late entries into medical records claiming safe temperatures for patients, Mr. Senior said in the statement, while those same patients were across the street dying in the emergency room with temperatures of over 108 degrees Fahrenheit.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In one instance, at 4:42 a.m., a nurse wrote that a 78-year-old residents temperature was 101.6 degrees.
But the resident had arrived at the hospitals emergency room in cardiac arrest 10 minutes earlier, with a temperature that the hospital recorded at 108.3 degrees.
She could not be saved.
Others who died had body temperatures of 109.9, 108.5 and 107.
In another case, which the agency described as very egregious, someone at the nursing home described a 84-year-old patient as resting in bed with breathing that was even and unlabored.
By the time that update was added, the person had already died.
But in a statement, Kirsten K. Ullman, a lawyer for the nursing home, said the late entries into residents medical records were not significant, since workers often wait until the end of their shift to update records.
Since the home was emptied before the end of the early shift on Sept. 13, some entries could not be made until residents had already left, she wrote.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Late entries document care given during the shift, but which was not documented due to circumstances beyond the homes control, Ms. Ullman wrote.
The alarming body temperatures cited by the agency, some of which were taken at the hospital, were much higher than those documented by the nursing home staff while the residents were still there, she wrote.
The caregivers at Hollywood Hills responded to the conditions with which they were faced in real time, she wrote.
It is only based on hindsight of outcome that the reasonable actions taken at the time are being criticized.
The agency had already temporarily stopped the facility from accepting any new patients, but on Wednesday, it moved to close it down entirely.
Rick Scott has also ordered the agency to cut off the homes ability to participate in Medicaid, and the Hollywood Police Department and the Florida Department of Law Enforcement have opened a criminal investigation.
On Tuesday night, the Rehabilitation Center filed a complaint in court against the health care agency with the accusation that two orders from last week that temporarily shut it down were improperly issued and violated its rights.
In its complaint, the facility reiterated what officials at the nursing home have insisted over the past week, and what public records released by the state validate: that the staff there tried to tell state officials and the power company multiple times that they needed help restoring the homes air-conditioning system, which had stopped working after the hurricane knocked out a vital transformer.
Other patients would require a slightly higher or lower concentration to achieve the same effect, but the variations were not large.
That led to their introduction in 1965 of a concept, called the minimum alveolar concentration, or MAC, that quickly became the standard measure of potency for anesthetic gases.
Because powerful anesthetics work at lower concentrations and weaker ones require higher doses, a lower MAC value would indicate a stronger drug.
Anesthesiologists use MAC values when planning doses needed for surgery.
The values are highly consistent from one patient to another and even among animals.
For any given drug, about the same concentration can anesthetize a 200-pound man, a smaller woman, a dog or a rat.
The amount needed to reach that concentration differs depending on the patients size, but the effective concentration itself does not change.
Dr. Shafer said the technique devised by Dr. Eger and his colleagues made the administering of anesthesia far safer and has saved millions of lives.
Photo

In later work, Dr. Eger identified new drugs that could be used as anesthesia, such as isoflurane, sevoflurane and desflurane, which are still the most widely used general anesthetics.
Ted Eger revolutionized modern anesthetic practice, and led the way to the development of the anesthetic gases used tens of millions of times a year, Dr. Michael A. Gropper, the chairman of the department of anesthesia and perioperative care at the University of California, San Francisco, wrote in an email.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Edmond I. Eger II was born on Sept. 3, 1930, in Chicago.
(His parents gave him a middle initial but not a middle name.)
His father was an advertising executive, and his mother, the former Miriam Newmann, was a homemaker.
As a boy, Dr. Eger skipped at least one grade, became a whiz at checkers and led the Hyde Park High School checker team to two city championships.
He graduated at 15, but, as a bored and indifferent student, wound up in the bottom 20 percent of the class.
He was soon hired to sell womens shoes, but after only one day on the job he decided he had had enough and resolved to apply for college.
He was accepted at Roosevelt College in Chicago, where he went from not working at all to working his butt off, Dr. Shafer said.
After a year, he transferred to the University of Illinois, where he majored in chemistry with a minor in math.
He went to medical school at Northwestern University.
In 1955, the same year he graduated from Northwestern, he married Dollie Ross, a speech therapist.
The marriage ended in divorce in 1983.
In 1996, he married Dr. Lynn Spitler, an immunologist, who survives him.
Dr. Eger is also survived by three daughters, Cris Cadence Waste, Doreen J. Eger and Renee R. Eger, and a son, Edmond Eger III, all from his first marriage; a half brother, Larry Eger; two stepchildren; seven grandchildren; and six step-grandchildren.
After completing his internship and residency, Dr. Eger served for two years as a captain in the medical corps, based at the Army hospital at Fort Leavenworth, Kan. From 1960 to 2006 he was a faculty member at the University of California, San Francisco.
He was an author of more than 500 scientific articles and an author or editor of seven books.
He received every award known to man in his specialty, Dr. Shafer said.
Dr. Eger spent the last 20 years of his career trying to understand how inhaled anesthetics work.
The drugs and their effects remain a mystery.
The same concentration that knocks out a person will anesthetize a sea slug or an amoeba, and will even paralyze a fern that normally curls up when touched, Dr. Shafer said.
The universality of those reactions suggests that the drugs are tapping into some biological mechanism that evolved eons ago.
Dr. Eger regretted that he had not been able to discover that mechanism, writing in his autobiography, The ah ha!
moment, the thrill of solving the hardest puzzle in all of pharmacology, awaits another investigator.
However, they also found major flaws in the reporting of findings.
People were consistently biased in interpreting their results in favor of a relationship between skipping breakfast and obesity.
They improperly used causal language to describe their results.
They misleadingly cited others results.
And they also improperly used causal language in citing others results.
People believe, and want you to believe, that skipping breakfast is bad.
Good reviews of all the observational research note the methodological flaws in this domain, as well as the problems of combining the results of publication-bias-influenced studies into a meta-analysis.
The associations should be viewed with skepticism and confirmed with prospective trials.
Few randomized controlled trials exist.
Those that do, although methodologically weak like most nutrition studies, dont support the necessity of breakfast.
Further confusing the field is a 2014 study (with more financial conflicts of interest than I thought possible) that found that getting breakfast skippers to eat breakfast, and getting breakfast eaters to skip breakfast, made no difference with respect to weight loss.
But a 1992 trial that did the same thing found that both groups lost weight.
A balanced perspective would acknowledge that we have no idea whats going on.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Many of the studies are funded by the food industry, which has a clear bias.
Kellogg funded a highly cited article that found that cereal for breakfast is associated with being thinner.
The Quaker Oats Center of Excellence (part of PepsiCo) financed a trial regarding consumption of oatmeal or frosted cornflakes (if you eat it in a highly controlled setting each weekday for four weeks), and found that only the no-breakfast group, which lost weight, experienced an increase in cholesterol.
Many studies focus on children and argue that kids who eat breakfast are also thinner, but this research suffers from the same flaws that the research in adults does.
What about the argument that children who eat breakfast behave and perform better in school?
Systematic reviews find that this is often the case.
But you have to consider that much of the research is looking at the impact of school breakfast programs.
One of the reasons that breakfast seems to improve childrens learning and progress is that, unfortunately, too many dont get enough to eat.
Hunger affects almost one in seven households in America, or about 15 million children.
Many more children get school lunches than school breakfasts.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its not hard to imagine that children who are hungry will do better if they are nourished.
This isnt the same, though, as testing whether children who are already well nourished and dont want breakfast should be forced to eat it.
It has been found that children who skip breakfast are more likely to be overweight than children who eat two breakfasts.
But that seems to be because children who want more breakfasts are going hungry at home.
No child who is hungry should be deprived of breakfast.
Thats different than saying that eating breakfast helps you to lose weight.
The bottom line is that the evidence for the importance of breakfast is something of a mess.
If youre hungry, eat it.
But dont feel bad if youd rather skip it, and dont listen to those who lecture you.
Breakfast has no mystical powers.
Photo

You may know theres added sugar in your Coke or cookies.
But did you know that its in your salad dressing, pasta sauce and bread?
The Food and Drug Administration came out Friday with its new template for nutrition labels.
One big change was the addition of a line for added sugar, to be placed below a line for total sugar.
The change is designed to distinguish between sugars that are naturally occurring in a food  like the milk sugar in a plain yogurt  and the sugars that food manufacturers include later to boost flavors  like the evaporated cane juice in a Chobani Kids strawberry yogurt.
A team of researchers at the University of North Carolina conducted a detailed survey of the packaged foods and drinks that are purchased in American grocery stores and found that 60 percent of them include some form of added sugar.
When they looked at every individual processed food in the store, 68 percent had added sugar.
Some of those products are more obvious sugary foods, but not all.
The list includes many sauces, soups, fruit juices and even meat products.
You might think its easy to figure out whether the food manufacturer added sugar to your food, but it isnt always so.
While some foods include sugar in their ingredients, many use different words for products that are nutritionally similar.
Most of us have heard of high-fructose corn syrup, a sugar made from processing corn.
But there are also things like the evaporated cane juice in the yogurt, and rice syrup and flo-malt, which are less obvious and amount to the same thing.
Words That Really Just Mean Added Sugar agave juice

agave nectar

agave sap

agave syrup

beet sugar

brown rice syrup

brown sugar

cane juice

cane sugar

cane syrup

clintose

confectioners powdered sugar

confectioners sugar

corn glucose syrup

corn sweet

corn sweetener

corn syrup

date sugar

dextrose

drimol

dri mol

dri-mol

drisweet

dri sweet

dri-sweet

dried raisin sweetener

edible lactose

flo malt

flo-malt

flomalt

fructose

fructose sweetener

glaze and icing sugar

glaze icing sugar

golden syrup

gomme

granular sweetener

granulated sugar

hi-fructose corn syrup

high fructose corn syrup

honey

honibake

honi bake

honi-bake

honi flake

honi-flake

invert sugar

inverted sugar

isoglucose

isomaltulose

kona ame

kona-ame

lactose

liquid sweetener

malt

malt sweetener

malt syrup

maltose

maple

maple sugar

maple syrup

mizu ame

mizu-ame

mizuame

molasses

nulomoline

powdered sugar

rice syrup

sorghum

sorghum syrup

starch sweetener

sucanat

sucrose

sucrovert

sugar beet

sugar invert

sweet n neat

table sugar

treacle

trehalose

tru sweet

turbinado sugar

versatose

Barry Popkin, a professor of nutrition at the University of North Carolina, and one of the papers authors, said that the wide variety of sugars is not always meant to confound consumers.
Instead, he said, the many sugar types are chosen by food scientists to give their products the best flavor and texture.
Some sugars are better for baked goods, while others are better in soft drinks.
Some are also cheaper than others.
Sugar tariffs and import laws make it expensive to bring in too much foreign sugar.
But not all of the sugar formulations count toward the laws quotas.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Theres also the matter of fruit juice concentrates, which are juices that have been stripped of nearly everything but sugar and evaporated.
A lot of seemingly natural foods include ingredients like apple juice concentrate.
Thats sugar.
That will be a lot clearer when the labels are updated.
Mrs. Clintons framing of the issue as she campaigns in the Pennsylvania primary echoes that of Mayor Jim Kenney of Philadelphia, who has emphasized the soda tax as a way of funding education.
Mr. Kenney talks about the tax not as a way to drive down soda drinking, but as one to help fight poverty in his city.
In truth, it would probably do some of both.
Higher soda prices, the likely result of such a tax, would discourage people from buying as much soda.
Public health reformers think such a function of the tax is desirable, since soda consumption has been linked to obesity, diabetes and tooth decay.
Photo

But theres another way to view soda taxes: as measures that hit the poor harder.
Lower-income Philadelphians, like other lower-income Americans, tend to drink more soda than their richer neighbors.
That means that they may get stuck paying a disproportionate share of the bill.
Making sure that every family has high-quality, affordable preschool and child care is a vision that I strongly share, Mr. Sanders said, in a written statement.
On the other hand, I do not support paying for this proposal through a regressive tax on soda that will significantly increase taxes on low-income and middle-class Americans.
At a time of massive income and wealth inequality, it should be the people on top who see an increase in their taxes, not low-income and working people.
Over the weekend, Mr. Sanders continued to express opposition to the tax, at campaign events and on Meet the Press.
The proposed Philadelphia tax would be 3 cents for every ounce of sugary drink sold by distributors, making it the highest soda tax proposed anywhere in the country.
That means a tax of $4.32 on a 12-pack of soda, which typically costs between $3 and $6 at the grocery store.
It would come to 60 cents of tax on a 20-ounce bottle, which usually retails for about $2.
Its not yet clear whether distributors will absorb some of that tax or simply pass all of it on to consumers, but the city budget department expects big price increases in retail stores.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mr. Sanders also says Mrs. Clintons support violates her pledge not to raise taxes on those earning less than $250,000.
Mr. Sanderss argument is in line with that of many soda tax opponents.
And theres most likely some truth to it.
Tobacco taxes, in many ways the model for soda taxes, have tended to fall largely on low-income people, who remain more likely to smoke.
But tobacco is highly addictive.
In Mexico, where a big, national soda tax went into effect in 2014, soda drinking declined the fastest among the poor, who felt the taxs effects in their budgets most acutely.
Consumption among the poorest Mexicans fell by 17 percent by the end of the year, compared with 12 percent in the population nationwide.
As Barry Popkin, a professor of nutrition at the University of North Carolina puts it: The rich paid the tax, and the poor reduced their soda drinking.
If something like that happens in Philadelphia, the poor may suffer in the form of less choice or enjoyment, but they may not bear the brunt of funding city preschool.
Republicans appear to be nearly united in their opposition to the measure, both as a tax increase and a nanny state intrusion on personal choice.
Several prominent Republicans cheered Mr. Sanderss anti-tax stance, including Grover Norquist, the president of Americans for Tax Reform, and an influential anti-tax advocate.
But conservative opposition to soda taxes is not true world over.
In Britain, the Conservative government just proposed a hefty soda tax, which is expected to become law.
The Minnesota Coronary Experiment was a well-designed study that was conducted in one nursing home and six state mental hospitals from 1968 to 1973.
More than 9,400 men and women, ages 20 to 97, participated.
Data on serum cholesterol were available on more than 2,300 participants who were on the study diets for more than a year.
At baseline, participants were getting about 18.5 percent of their calories from saturated fat, and about 3.8 percent from unsaturated fats.
The intervention diet was considered a more heart healthy one.
It encouraged a reduction in the amount of calories from saturated fats (like animal fats and butter) and more from unsaturated fats, particularly linoleic acids (like corn oil).
The intervention diet lowered the percent of calories from saturated fats to 9.2 percent, and raised the percent from unsaturated fats to 13.2 percent.
The average follow-up for these participants was just under three years.
In that time, the total serum cholesterol dropped significantly more in those on the intervention diet (-31.2 mg/dL) than in those on the control diet (-5 mg/dL).
There was, however, no decreased risk of death.
If anything, there seemed to be an increased mortality rate in those on the heart healthy diet, particularly among those 65 years and older.
More concerning, those who had the greater reduction in serum cholesterol had a higher rate of death.
A 30mg/dL decrease in serum cholesterol was associated with a 22 percent increase in the risk of death from any cause, even after adjusting for baseline cholesterol, age, sex, adherence to the diet, body mass and blood pressure.
Of course, this is only one study.
It involved only institutionalized patients.
Only about a quarter of the participants followed the diet for more than a year.
The diets dont necessarily look like what people really ate, then or now.
But this is still a large, randomized controlled trial, and its hard to imagine we wouldnt at least discuss it widely.
Moreover, the researchers conducted a meta-analysis of all studies that looked at this question.
Analyzed together, they still found that more people died on the linoleic-acid-rich diets, although the results were not statistically significant.
Even in a sensitivity analysis, which included more studies, no mortality benefit could be found with a diet lower in saturated fats.
Its important to note that other meta-analyses both support and dispute this.
A 2010 study argued that substituting unsaturated fats for saturated fats would reduce the rates of coronary heart disease.
So did a 2015 Cochrane review.
A 2014 study in Annals of Internal Medicine, though, showed the opposite.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Peoples reactions to this news have been much as youd expect.
Supporters of a diet low in saturated fat have called the new study an interesting historical footnote that has no relevance to current dietary recommendations.
Others have said that if this research had been published when the study was over, it might have changed the trajectory of diet-heart research and recommendations.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This isnt the first time that data from long ago have run against current recommendations.
In 2013, an analysis was published of recovered data from the Sydney Diet Heart Study, a randomized controlled trial of a similar nature performed in men with a recent heart attack or angina.
Although the study was done from 1966 to 1973, results werent available publicly until three years ago.
It, too, found that a diet higher in unsaturated fats led to a higher rate of death from heart disease.
Why wasnt this research published decades ago?
Its possible that modern computer technology allows us to do analyses that couldnt be performed then.
Its possible that researchers tried, but were unable to get the results published.
But its also possible that these results were marginalized because they didnt fit with what was considered to be truth at the time.
The two principal investigators on the Minnesota study were Ivan Frantz and Ancel Keys, the latter of whom may be the most influential scientist in promoting saturated fat as the enemy of heart health.
(Mr. Keys died in 2004.)
Im not suggesting anything sinister.
Im sure that both these scientists absolutely believed that their prior epidemiologic work established that diets lower in saturated fat led to lower cholesterol levels and better health.
Research consistently confirmed the former.
When that lower cholesterol didnt translate into actual outcomes like lower mortality, though, they must have been baffled.
Like others today, they may have been able to rationalize the result away and decide that it has no relevance.
Unfortunately, other, similar controlled trials seem to support the notion that the case against saturated fat isnt as robust as many think.
We all must be concerned about publication bias, which occurs when results of published studies are systematically different from results of unpublished studies.
Research has shown that studies with statistically significant results are more likely to be published than those without.
Studies with a low-priority topic or finding may be less likely to be published.
One of the reasons that epidemiologic evidence often leads us to conclusions that cant be supported is likely publication bias.
Studies that find significant associations between foods (like meat) and scary findings (like cancer) are more likely to be published than those that dont find those associations.
When controlled trials are finally done, though, the scary results often cant be replicated.
But the most common reason research isnt published is because researchers dont write it up and submit it.
That could be because they think it wont be accepted.
It could also be because they dont believe the results.
In the charged environment of nutrition research, when peoples careers are built on certain hypotheses, its hard not to imagine our biases creeping into play.
Unfortunately, the health of Americans and others is at stake.
Should we be eating more polyunsaturated fats?
Should we be avoiding saturated fats?
The honest answer is: I dont know.
Given my review of the evidence, I stand by my previous recommendations, which essentially focus more on foods and less on nutrients.
I think the state of nutrition research in general is shockingly flawed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its hard enough to debate the data we can see.
Knowing theres probably data out there that people havent shared makes everything much, much harder.
Photo

Two years ago, Kristi Wood was tired and achy and could not think clearly, and she had no idea why.
I was in a fog and feeling awful, said Ms. Wood, 49, who lives in Seattle and is an owner of a hiking supply company.
Ms. Wood had her blood tested by a consumer service called InsideTracker, which analyzes 30 hormones and biomarkers, such as vitamin levels, cholesterol and inflammation.
After the service told Ms. Wood she had excessive levels of vitamin D, she cut back on a supplement she had been using and said she almost immediately felt better.
Now she has her blood drawn and tested by InsideTracker every four months to check everything from her blood sugar to her B12 levels which, she said, allows me to be proactive about her health.
The services typically send their customers to a nearby clinic where they can have a vial of their blood drawn and sent for analyses.
But InsideTracker also offers customers the option to have nurses show up at their home and draw blood.
(Such services are different from another blood testing company that has been much in the news, Theranos, which aims to provide laboratory test results from a single finger prick.)
Home testing services like InsideTracker say they are empowering consumers, allowing them to spot metabolic red flags before they progress to disease.
But critics say the services often lack proper medical oversight and convince healthy people that theyre sick, leading to unnecessary testing and treatment.
Those concerns have not stopped people from seeking home testing.
The market for direct-to-consumer laboratory tests was valued at $131 million last year, up from $15 million in 2010,according to Kalorama Information, a pharmaceutical-industry research firm.
In December, the New York State attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, accused two companies, DirectLabs and LabCorp, of violating a state law that requires laboratory tests to be carried out at the request of licensed medical practitioners.
DirectLabs had sold hundreds of health tests to consumers, ranging from checks for heavy metals and vitamins to screening for parasites and disease.
But Mr. Schneiderman said the person fulfilling the medical practitioner role was actually a chiropractor who had never met, spoken to or followed up with any patients.
DirectLabs did not respond to a request for comment.
DirectLabs and LabCorp agreed to pay fines, and DirectLabs ceased operating in New York.
In a statement, Mr. Schneiderman said that allowing consumers to be tested for serious medical conditions without consulting a physician put their health in jeopardy.
Advocates of home testing, however, say such cases do not reflect industry practices.
InsideTracker and another leading company, WellnessFX, said they worked with doctors who reviewed all test results.
Paul Jacobson, the chief executive of WellnessFX, based in San Francisco, said the company complied with all regulations and offered customers the option of consulting with a doctor, nutritionist or registered dietitian to discuss their results.
WellnessFX sells packages ranging from $78 to $988, offering analyses of 25 to 88 blood biomarkers, including vitamins, lipids, cardiovascular markers and thyroid and reproductive hormones.
Depending on the results, the company also suggests supplements, foods and exercise.
You need to offer solutions to people; otherwise, youre just giving them meaningless information, Mr. Jacobson said.
Tara Boening, the dietitian for the Houston Rockets of the National Basketball Association, said the team started using InsideTracker this season.
The players look at their reports (deficiencies are highlighted in red), which include suggested corrective actions such as eating more red meat and leafy greens if they are low in iron.
The players have been really receptive to the information, Ms. Boening said.
But some doctors say that there is no evidence that such monitoring makes a meaningful improvement in health.
Dr. Pieter Cohen, an assistant professor at Harvard Medical School and an internist at Cambridge Health Alliance, cautioned that the levels of vitamin D and other biomarkers that were optimal for one person might be very different from what is optimal for another person.
He said InsideTrackers lab reports, for example, classified vitamin D levels below 30 nanograms per milliliter as low  even though a level above 20 is perfectly normal and adequate for most people.
Dr. Cohen said his major concern with direct-to-consumer blood tests was that they screened for so many biomarkers and created seemingly arbitrary ranges for what is considered normal.
Then they give people advice that they already know they should be following.
The best-case scenario here is you lose your money and then youre reminded to get more sleep and to eat more fruits, vegetables and fish, he said.
The worst-case scenario is that you end up getting alarmed by supposedly abnormal results that are actually completely normal for you.
InsideTracker was founded by Gil Blander, a biochemist who did postgraduate research on aging at M.I.T.
He said the idea behind InsideTracker was analogous to routine maintenance for cars.
We decided, lets try to do that for humans, Dr. Blander said.
We can help you find a small issue today that might be a big problem in the future.
Some, like Joseph Roberts, say the services are life-changing.
Four years ago, Mr. Roberts, a former Army Ranger and a retired master sergeant, was plagued by fatigue, depression and weight gain despite frequent exercise.
Mr. Roberts, then 39, said doctors told him his symptoms were a normal part of aging.
Eventually, he decided to have his blood tested with InsideTracker, and the results surprised him, he said.
He was told he had low testosterone and vitamin D, as well as excessive levels of vitamin B12.
Mr. Roberts cut back on daily energy drinks, which are loaded with B12.
He also saw a doctor to discuss his testosterone levels.
He learned his low levels were linked to a brain injury he had sustained as a result of a roadside bomb explosion in Iraq in 2003.
He began testosterone-replacement therapy and now regularly checks in with a doctor.
He also has his blood tested with InsideTracker every four months.
Ive had a huge improvement in my quality of life, he said.
Its money well spent.
For more fitness, food and wellness news, follow us on Facebook and Twitter, or sign up for our newsletter.
Photo

Hard Cases Dr. Abigail Zuger on the everyday ethical issues doctors face.
The minute I got on that bus, I knew I was in trouble.
The driver sat at the stop just long enough to miss the green light.
Then he inched along till he missed the next light and the one after that.
He stopped at every stop even though not a soul was waiting.
The 20-minute trip to work stretched to a half-hour, then longer.
I was late, late, late.
But this was a driver with a mission, clearly way ahead of schedule and trying to get back on track.
He was very early; now I was very late.
We were two people with competing, mutually exclusive agendas, and the one in the drivers seat was bound to win.
A half-hour later, still sweating from racing the last five blocks on foot, with patients piling up in the waiting room, I became the one in the drivers seat, with the mission and overriding agenda.
Woe betide those with competing plans.
Just like that driver, I work under two mandates.
One is professional: getting my passengers from point A to point B without breaking the law or killing anyone.
The other one is less exalted but generally far more visible: I run according to a schedule that I ignore at my peril.
Shes running late, they mutter out in the waiting room.
And indeed, she runs late for exactly the same reasons your bus runs late: too many slow-moving passengers lined up to board.
Not enough buses or drivers.
A person in a wheelchair requiring extra attention.
Horrible traffic.
Not only does she often run late, but your poor driver  er, doctor  can run only so late before disaster ensues.
She has obligations not only to you and your fellow passengers twitching in annoyance, but to a host of others, including the nursing and secretarial staffs and the cleaning crew at the end of the line.
She cant pull that bus in at midnight if everyone is supposed to leave by 7 p.m.
So when there is enough work to last till midnight, my agenda shifts, and not so subtly.
Everyone can tell when I begin to speed.
Every visit is pared down to the essentials.
All optional and cosmetic issues are postponed, including most toenail problems and all paperwork.
Chatting is minimized.
As a bus driver once said to me when I was foolish enough to start a conversation about his speed: Lady, just get behind the white line and let me drive.
Medicine is full of competing agendas.
Even at the best of times, the match between the doctors and the patients is less than perfect, sometimes egregiously so.
Some residents are now trained specifically in agenda setting, the art of successfully amalgamating all concerns.
But when its all about speed, an advanced skill set is required.
A patient has been waiting weeks for his appointment, anxiously rehearsing his lines.
Bad luck that he showed up on a day I need him in and out in 19 minutes.
He spends his first 18 unwisely, pretending everything is fine, making small talk, not quite mustering the courage to say whats on his mind.
Then just as he is being ushered gently to the door, he pauses.
Oh, by the way 

Oh, by the way is an infamous schedule buster.
It means something bad: a suspicious lump, a sexually transmitted disease.
Further, it is so common that an entire literature now addresses the oh, by the way phenomenon and how to tame it.
One favored tool is: What else?
That question, asked by the doctor early in the visit, is intended to probe the patients agenda before it trumps the doctors.
As one set of researchers wrote: The what else?
technique uncovers pertinent fears and anxieties up front and prevents an oh, by the way, I have been having some chest pain from surfacing at the end of a visit.
In other words: My agenda is to adopt your agenda, and then rework it so that I can drive on.
Brutal, perhaps, but effective.
Very rarely do things work out for me the way they did for that driver who made me so late to work.
Occasionally I have so much time that I can dawdle along the route.
I remember clearly the last time that happened.
Hows work?
I began.
What are you doing for exercise?
Any hobbies?
Your family, are they well?
I progressed rapidly through seatbelts, bike helmets, family medical history, end-of-life preferences  every single stop my bus typically has no time to make.
Every answer was fine, yes, or I dunno.
Then the patient stood up: Look, I have places to be.
Are we done?
We were two people with competing, mutually exclusive agendas.
But that time the one in the drivers seat lost.
Related:

For more fitness, food and wellness news, follow us on Facebook and Twitter, or sign up for our newsletter.
Photo

The Checkup Dr. Perri Klass on family health.
When girls come in for their physical exams, one of the questions I routinely ask is Do you get your period?
I try to ask before I expect the answer to be yes, so that if a girl doesnt seem to know about the changes of puberty that lie ahead, I can encourage her to talk about them with her mother, and offer to help answer questions.
And I often point out that even those who have not yet embarked on puberty themselves are likely to have classmates who are going through these changes, so, again, its important to let kids know that their questions are welcome, and will be answered accurately.
But like everybody else who deals with girls, Im aware that this means bringing up the topic when girls are pretty young.
Puberty is now coming earlier for many girls, with bodies changing in the third and fourth grade, and there is a complicated discussion about the reasons, from obesity and family stress to chemicals in the environment that may disrupt the normal effects of hormones.
Im not going to try to delineate that discussion here  though its an important one  because I want to concentrate on the effect, rather than the cause, of reaching puberty early.
A large study published in May in the journal Pediatrics looked at a group of 8,327 children born in Hong Kong in April and May of 1997, for whom a great deal of health data has been collected.
The researchers had access to the childrens health records, showing how their doctors had documented their physical maturity, according to what are known as the Tanner stages, for the standardized pediatric index of sexual maturation.
Before children enter puberty, we call it Tanner I; for girls, Tanner II is the beginning of breast development, while for boys, its the enlargement of the scrotum and testes and the reddening and changing of the scrotum skin.
Boys and girls then progress through the intermediate changes to stage V, full physical maturity.
In this study, the researchers looked at the relationship between the age at which children moved from Tanner I to Tanner II  that is, the age at which the physical beginnings of puberty were noticed  and the likelihood of depression in those children when they were 12 to 15 years old, as detected on a screening questionnaire.
What we found was the girls who had earlier breast development had a higher risk of depressive symptoms, or more depressive symptoms, said Dr. C. Mary Schooling, an epidemiologist who is a professor at the City University of New York School of Public Health, and was the senior author on the study.
We didnt see the same thing for boys.
Earlier onset of breast development in girls was associated with a higher risk of depression in early adolescence even after controlling for many other factors, including socioeconomic status, weight or parents marital status.
Other studies, including in the United States, have shown this same pattern, with girls who begin developing earlier than their peers vulnerable to depression in adolescence.
Some studies have found this in boys, though its not as clear.
But there is concern that girls whose development starts earlier than their peers are at risk in a number of ways, and across different cultural backgrounds.
Early puberty is a challenge and a stress, and its associated with more than depression, said Dr. Jane Mendle, a clinical psychologist in the department of human development at Cornell University.
She named anxiety, disordered eating and self-injury as some of the risks for girls.
In her studies of puberty, she has found associations between early development and depression in both genders in New York children.
In boys, the tempo of puberty was significant, as well as the timing; boys who moved more rapidly from one Tanner stage to the next were at higher risk and the increased depression risk seemed to be related to changes in their peer relationships.
Before puberty, Dr. Mendle said, depression occurs at roughly the same rate in both sexes, but by the midpoint of puberty, girls are two and a half times more likely to be depressed than boys.
Some of these children may already be at risk; Dr. Mendle said that early puberty is more common in children who have grown up in circumstances of adversity, in poverty, in the foster care system.
But some of it is heredity and some of it is body type and some of it, probably, is chance.
Researchers have wondered about hormonal associations with depression; Dr.
Schooling pointed out that their study found that depression was associated with early breast development, controlled by estrogens, but not with early pubic hair development, controlled by androgens.
There is no physical factor that we know about that would explain this; estrogen has been eliminated as a driver of depression in earlier research, she said in an email.
We probably need to explore social factors to seek an explanation.
They also plan to follow up with their study population at age 17.
The biological transition of puberty, of course, occurs in a social and cultural context.
One very important effect of developing early, Dr. Mendle said, is that it changes the way that people treat you, from your peers to the adults in your life to strangers.
When kids navigate puberty they start to look different, she said.
It can be hard for them to maintain friendships with kids who havent developed, and we also know that early maturing girls are more likely to be harassed and victimized by other kids in their grade.
Parents should be aware of the difficulties that children may experience if they start puberty earlier than their peers, but lots of children handle early development with resiliency, and even pride.
Children who start puberty early  say, 8 instead of 12  are faced with handling those physical changes while they are more childlike in their knowledge and their cognitive development, and in their emotional understanding of what goes on around them.
Parents should keep in mind that the same protective factors that help children navigate other challenges of growing up are helpful here: All children do better when they have good relationships with their parents, and when they feel connected at school.
And we should be talking about the changes to their bodies before they happen, and make it clear that all of these topics are open for discussion.
Related:

Sign up for the Well Family newsletter to get the latest news on parenting, child health and relationships with advice from our experts to help every family live well.
Video

Personal Health Jane Brody on health and aging.
No doubt in the course of your life, you did something, or failed to do something, that left you feeling guilty or ashamed.
What if that something was in such violation of your moral compass that you felt unable to forgive yourself, undeserving of happiness, perhaps even unfit to live?
That is the fate of an untold number of servicemen and women who served in Iraq, Afghanistan, Vietnam and other wars.
Many participated in, witnessed or were unable to help in the face of atrocities, from failing to aid an injured person to killing a child, by accident or in self-defense.
For some veterans, this leaves emotional wounds that time refuses to heal.
It radically changes them and how they deal with the world.
It has a name: moral injury.
Unlike a better known casualty of war, post-traumatic stress disorder, or PTSD, moral injury is not yet a recognized psychiatric diagnosis, although the harm it inflicts is as bad if not worse.
The problem is highlighted in a new documentary called Almost Sunrise, which will be shown next weekend at the Human Rights Watch Film Festival in New York and on June 23 and 24 at AFI Docs in Washington, D.C.
The film depicts the emotional agony and self-destructive aftermath of moral injury and follows two sufferers along a path that alleviates their psychic distress and offers hope for eventual recovery.
Photo

Therapists both within and outside the Department of Veterans Affairs increasingly recognize moral injury as the reason so many returning vets are self-destructive and are not helped, or only partly helped, by established treatments for PTSD.
Moral injury has some of the symptoms of PTSD, especially anger, depression, anxiety, nightmares, insomnia and self-medication with drugs or alcohol.
And it may benefit from some of the same treatments.
But moral injury has an added burden of guilt, grief, shame, regret, sorrow and alienation that requires a very different approach to reach the core of a sufferers psyche.
Unlike the soldiers who were drafted to serve in Vietnam, the members of the armed forces today chose to enlist.
Those deployed to Iraq thought at first they were fighting to bring democracy to the country, then were told later it was to win hearts and minds.
But to many of those in battle, the real effect was to terrorize people, as one veteran says in the film.
Another said, Thats not what we signed up for.
That war can be morally compromising is not a new idea and has been true in every war.
But the therapeutic community is only now becoming aware of the dimensions of moral injury and how it can be treated.
Father Thomas Keating, a founding member of Contemplative Outreach, says in the film, Antidepressants dont reach the depth of what these men are feeling, that they did something terribly wrong and dont know if they can be forgiven.
The first challenge, though, is to get emotionally damaged veterans to acknowledge their hidden agony and seek professional help instead of trying to suppress it, often by engaging in self-destructive behaviors.
A lot of vets wont seek help because whats haunting them are not heroic acts, or they were betrayed, or they cant live with themselves because they made a mistake, said Brett Litz, a mental health specialist with the V.A.
Boston Healthcare System and a leading expert on moral injury.
The second challenge is to win their trust, to reassure them that they will not be judged and are deserving of forgiveness.
Therapists who study and treat moral injury have found that no amount of medication can relieve the pain of trying to live with an unbearable moral burden.
They say those suffering from moral injury contribute significantly to the horrific toll of suicide among returning vets  estimated as high as 18 to 22 a day in the United States, more than the number lost in combat.
The film features two very troubled veterans of the war in Iraq, Tom Voss and Anthony Anderson, who decide to walk from Milwaukee to Los Angeles  2,700 miles taking 155 days  to help them heal from the combat experiences that haunt them and threaten to destroy their most valued relationships.
Six years after returning from his second deployment in Iraq, Mr. Voss said of his mental state before taking the cross-country trek, If anything, its worse now.
Along the way, the two men raise awareness of the unrelenting pain of moral injury many vets face and encourage them to seek treatment.
Mr. Voss and Mr. Anderson were helped by a number of counselors and treatments, including a Native American spiritual healer and a meditative technique called power breathing.
They also found communing with nature to be restorative, enabling them to again recognize beauty in the world.
Shira Maguen, a research psychologist and clinician at the San Francisco V.A.
Medical Center, who studies and treats vets suffering from moral injury, said, We have a big focus on self-forgiveness.
We have them write a letter to the person they killed or to a younger version of themselves.
We focus on making amends, planning for their future and moving forward, especially important since many think they have no future.
Dr. Maguen, who studied how killing during combat affects suicidal ideation in returning vets, found that those who had killed were at much higher risk of suicide, even when controlling for factors like PTSD, depression and alcohol and drug abuse.
She said in an interview that decades after the Vietnam War, there was still an impact on veterans who killed enemy combatants, and an even stronger effect on those who killed women and children.
Photo

To overcome veterans reluctance to seek help for moral injury, Dr. Maguen incorporates mental health care into routine clinical visits.
In Boston, Dr. Litz and colleagues are testing a therapeutic approach called adaptive disclosure, a technique akin to confession.
With eyes closed, the vets are asked to verbally share vivid details of their trauma with an imagined compassionate person who loves them, then imagine how that person would respond.
The therapist guides the conversation along a path toward healing.
Disclosing, sharing, confessing is fundamental to repair, Dr. Litz said.
In doing so, the vets learn that what happened to them can be tolerated, theyre not rejected.
They are also encouraged to engage in the world in a way that is repairing  for example, by helping children or writing letters.
The goal is to find forgiveness within themselves or from others.
One fact that all agree on: The process is a lengthy one.
As Mr. Voss said, I knew after the walk I still had a long road of healing ahead of me.
Now, however, he has some useful tools and he shares them freely.
Related:

For more fitness, food and wellness news, follow us on Facebook and Twitter, or sign up for our newsletter.
Think Like a Doctor Solve a medical mystery with Dr. Lisa Sanders.
On Thursday, we challenged Well readers to solve the case of a previously healthy 67-year-old gardener who abandoned his garden one summer, alarming his wife and adult children.
For weeks this vibrant and energetic man had been the last one out of bed  something his family had never seen before.
And his days were interrupted each afternoon with a fever that left him shaking and pale.
More than 300 readers suggested diagnoses for this classic presentation of an unusual disease, and a couple dozen of you nailed it.
The correct diagnosis is

Babesiosis

The first person to identify this unusual infection was Dr. Paige Szymanowski, a resident in her second year of training in internal medicine at the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston.
She said she recognized the pattern of a fever with a low blood count, low platelet count and evidence of liver injury.
Dr. Szymanowski hasnt made up her mind what kind of doctor shes going to be, but she is thinking of subspecializing in infectious diseases.
I think she shows real promise in this area.
Well done!
The Diagnosis

Babesiosis is caused by the parasite Babesia microti, a protozoa.
It is usually transmitted by Ixodes scapularis, better known as the deer tick, the same small arthropod that transmits Lyme disease.
Sometimes the two diseases occur together, passed on in the same bite.
The disease can also be spread through blood transfusions from an infected donor.
Babesiosis is rare and occurs primarily in the Northeast and Upper Midwest  Minnesota and Wisconsin  regions of the United States.
In healthy people it often causes no symptoms.
However, those who are over 65 or who have some type of immune suppression  because of a chronic disease or medication  or those who dont have a spleen are more likely to develop symptoms and can become quite ill or even die from this infection.
Easy to Miss

Babesiosis is difficult to diagnose, and the diagnosis is often overlooked, even in areas where infection is most common.
Patients with babesiosis have few, if any, localizing signs to suggest the disease.
Fever  which can be constant or, as was the case with this patient, intermittent  is common.
So are shaking, chills, fatigue, loss of appetite, abdominal pain and headache.
These symptoms, however, are seen in many infections.
And indeed, our patient had all of these symptoms, but it took many weeks for him to get a diagnosis.
The diagnosis is confirmed when the ring form of the protozoa is seen on a blood smear, or when the Babesia DNA is detected in the blood.
Doxycycline, which is used to treat other tick-borne diseases, is ineffective against this organism.
An antimalarial medication (atovaquone) plus an antibiotic (azithromycin) are first-line treatments against this infection.
Improvement is usually seen within 48 hours of starting the drugs.
Although the infection will often resolve without treatment, all who are diagnosed with the disease should be treated since, in rare cases, the bug will persist and become symptomatic if a patient later develops some immune system problem or has his spleen removed.
How the Diagnosis Was Made

Dr. Neil Gupta was leading the daytime on-call team at Saint Raphaels hospital in New Haven, Conn., where the patients daughter had taken him.
Dr. Gupta heard about this patient when the night team handed off the patients they had admitted on their shift and met him that morning.
Seeing how well the patient looked, and hearing that hed been given the usually benign diagnosis of hepatitis A, he turned his attention to patients who seemed sicker and more in need of thought and care.
Until the patient spiked his usual afternoon fever.
One of the ways the doctors mind works is to put together pictures of what a disease looks like in a patient.
We put these so-called illness scripts together based on our knowledge of the disease plus the patients we have seen who have had it.
When Dr. Gupta heard that the patient had spiked a temperature, he went back to see how he was doing.
The patient was pleasant but didnt say much.
Perhaps there was a language barrier  he spoke with a thick Italian accent.
Or perhaps he was one of those patients who just dont focus on what ails them.
Hearing From the Patients Family

The patients wife and daughter, however, had been much more attuned to the changes in his health and behavior, and what they reported didnt really sound like hepatitis.
Was this the right diagnosis, Dr. Gupta wondered?
He sat down with the family in the nursing lounge and let them tell the whole story as they recalled it.
The man had actually been sick for several weeks.
Hed had a fever every day.
And he was tired.
Normally he never sat down, was never idle.
These days it seemed he never left the house anymore.
Never went into the garden.
He just sat on the sofa.
For hours.
Sometimes he had pain in his upper abdomen, but never any nausea; he had never vomited.
But he did have a cough.
This was not the man they knew, the women told him.
Reviewing the Symptoms

Dr. Gupta returned to the patient and examined him, this time quite carefully, looking for the signs common in hep A.
The mans skin was dark but not yellow; and his eyes, while appearing tired, showed no hint of yellow either.
His liver was not enlarged or tender.
He didnt look to Dr. Gupta like a patient who had hepatitis A.
The patient did have tests that were positive for hepatitis A, however.
Could these tests be wrong?
Dr. Gupta suspected that was the case.
O.K., if not hepatitis A, what did he have?
The young internist made a list of the key components of the case: He had recurring fevers every afternoon.
He had a cough and some upper abdominal pain.
Not very specific  except for the repeating fevers.
The labs were a little more helpful.
His liver showed signs of very mild injury  again, not consistent with hepatitis A, which usually causes significant liver insult.
However, he did have a mild anemia that had gotten worse over the past three days.
Hed had his blood count drawn two days earlier, when he went to the emergency room at YaleNew Haven Hospital.
That showed a very mild anemia  slightly fewer red blood cells than normal.
The evening before, the patients red blood cell count had dropped further.
And today, even further.
So his red blood cells were being destroyed somehow.
To Dr. Gupta, that seemed to be a second important clue.
In addition, his platelets were quite low.
Many Possiblities

So, the patient had cyclic fevers, a worsening anemia and a mild liver injury.
That suggested a very different set of diseases.
The patient was a gardener and had been treated for Lyme disease.
Could he have a different tick-borne illness?
Certainly a number of illnesses could present this way.
The cyclic fevers were suggestive of malaria  rare in this country, but still worth thinking about.
Could this be mononucleosis?
Or even H.I.V.?
Those diseases can affect red blood cells and the liver.
And they can last weeks or months.
If those tests were negative, he would need to start looking for autoimmune diseases or cancers.
Finally, he would need to review the blood smear with the pathologist.
Several of these diseases can provide clues when you look at the blood itself.
An Answer in the Blood

A call came to Dr. Gupta late the next day.
The pathologist had tested the patients blood for the presence of the Babesia gene, and found it.
The patient had babesiosis.
Dr. Gupta went down to look at the blood smear with the pathologist.
There, in the middle of a sea of normal looking red blood cells, was a tiny pear-shaped object.
It was one of the protozoa.
Dr. Gupta was excited.
He pulled up a picture of the tick that spreads the disease and the tiny bug that causes it to show to the family.
This was what was making the patient so very sick.
How the Patient Fared

The patient was started on the two medications to treat babesiosis the same day.
Twenty-four hours later he spent his first day completely fever-free  the first in several weeks.
After a couple more days, the patient was up and walking around, asking to go home.
He went home the following day, with instructions to take his two medications twice a day for a total of 10 days.
That was last summer.
This summer, the patient is back in his garden.
He is a little more careful to avoid getting tick bites.
He wears his long pants tucked into his socks and his wife looks him over every night  just to be sure.
Photo

Got seven minutes?
Weve got the app.
Today The New York Times is offering a free mobile app for the popular Scientific 7-Minute Workout and the new Advanced 7-Minute Workout.
The workouts, reported by Gretchen Reynolds, our Phys Ed columnist, can now be installed on your smartphone or tablet, or used on your desktop computer.
The app offers a step-by-step guide to both 7-minute workouts, offering animated illustrations of the exercises, as well as a timer and audio cues to help you get the most out of your seven minutes.
In the coming months, well offer additional Well fitness apps to give you a full library of workout options using your smartphone, tablet or computer as a personal fitness guide.
If you have suggestions or feedback about the new apps, feel free to post a comment below.
iPhone and iPad app users can leave comments here.
How To Install

Photo

On an iOS device, open this link.
Tap the Bookmark button, then Add to Home Screen.
The app is then usable even if you dont have an Internet connection.
Photo

On an Android device, use the Chrome browser to open this link.
Then tap the Menu button, then Add to Home Screen.
The app is then usable even if you dont have an Internet connection.
To use on a desktop or other device, click here.
Asprey says he finally lost faith in Western medicine at 23, when a doctor told him that vitamin C could kill him.
It turns out this isnt true, but for Asprey it was the last straw.
As a boy, he suffered from inexplicable rashes and alarming, recurring nosebleeds.
He says he also felt a mental sluggishness that never seemed to recede.
This frightened him, especially as he entered college.
By the time he was 22, he weighed 300 pounds.
He bought disability insurance when he was about 25 because he was worried that there would come a day when he wouldnt have enough energy to work.
His poor health didnt hold back his career.
Asprey rose through a series of high-profile positions at several successful technology companies in the 90s and 00s.
Still, he felt restless and unhappy.
In 1995, determined to get his weight under control, he spent 18 months on a strict diet and exercised six days a week.
He got stronger, but lost little fat.
And the food restrictions made him even more miserable.
Photo

In the 90s, Asprey studied a form of information management called a decision support system at California State University, Stanislaus.
Such systems use artificial intelligence to analyze data and present it so users can more easily make difficult business decisions.
Asprey decided to apply similar tactics to his health.
He began closely tracking his food intake alongside his energy levels, mood, sleep and physical activity to create a data set so he could see what patterns emerged  which inputs correlated with positive outcomes and which didnt.
After his failed low-calorie diet, he tried others: the Zone, Atkins, raw veganism, high-protein and intermittent fasting.
At the same time, he went to extreme lengths to collect additional data on his bodys performance.
He had adrenal testing done to better understand how his hormones worked; extensive blood work let him monitor his glucose and albumin levels.
He got DNA tests to look for genes that might cause immunodeficiency and sent out samples of his feces to learn about the microbes in his digestive tract.
He bought an electroencephalogram, or EEG machine, to monitor his brain waves.
Once, in 2006, hoping to treat gut problems, he placed an order online for a shipment of parasites called porcine whipworm.
The eggs arrived from Thailand a few days later in a saline solution.
He drank the whole thing hoping they would trigger an anti-inflammatory reaction in his gut.
They didnt.
In all, Asprey says, he has spent more than $300,000 over 20 years on this self-funded research.
He talks about himself almost as a lab rat, or as a monkey that was shot into space and returned intact, bearing data to share.
But, with his background in computer science, he also fancies himself a hacker  someone who endlessly manipulates a complex system, troubleshooting and looking for vulnerabilities to exploit.
He eventually developed his dietary guidelines, which emphasize that half the days calories should come from healthy fats like coconut oil and avocados.
Asprey believes these provide more energy and satiation than carbohydrates.
The rest is a mix of organic proteins and vegetables.
It is both strict and decadent.
Sugar (including fruit), grains, legumes and pasteurized dairy are to be avoided, as are many trendy health food items like raw kale and nut milks, which Asprey says contain toxins.
The diet is ketogenic; it forces the body to burn fat, instead of carbohydrates and glucose, for energy.
The centerpiece of the Bulletproof Diet  and the business  is Bulletproof Coffee: a blend of freshly brewed coffee, the Brain Octane oil and grass-fed butter, consumed at the beginning of each day to boost energy and curb hunger.
It comes with a remarkable patter.
In 2004, as part of his campaign of self-improvement, Asprey went to Tibet to study meditation.
On a trek in the Himalayas, he began to feel the effects of altitude sickness.
At a local guesthouse, he was served a cup of tea mixed with yak butter, which he found to be revitalizing and energizing.
After returning home, he tried to make his own version, and eventually landed on the recipe he sells today  almost.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Asprey and Bulletproof employees are fond of asking whether youve had real Bulletproof Coffee  meaning not made with store-bought butter and coconut oil in your kitchen, but with their branded products.
Asprey insists that most American coffee is riddled with a fungus that causes a post-consumption crash.
He is especially hung up on mold toxins, or mycotoxins, which he believes were responsible for the health conditions that afflicted him while growing up.
The mold in American coffee, he says, leads to illnesses, inflammation and weight gain.
Asprey sells his own specially treated mold-free coffee for as much as $18.95 a pound online and at the shop.
Next month, he is releasing a Bulletproof cookbook.
Despite some superficial signs of age, Aspreys face is unlined, and after a while his self-assuredness and unflinching confidence in his methodology becomes contagious.
Listening to his story, I stopped questioning his logic.
I found myself growing impatient as he described the benefits of his medicine cabinet of brain nutrients, and asked for some  I feel like I need them, I said.
An assistant brought in freshly blended cups of Bulletproof Coffee in Bulletproof-branded stainless-steel travel mugs.
The fattiness of the butter and oil lent the coffee a mouth feel similar to Guinness.
After a few sips, I started to feel giddy, and almost high  as if I could run a marathon and deliver a keynote lecture and do my taxes, all at once.
Photo

The next morning, I arrived at the Pasadena Convention Center for the first day of the Bulletproof Biohacking conference.
Inside, the crowd was almost comically Southern Californian.
The bodies were firm, the jawlines sharp.
The women were no strangers to cosmetic enhancement, and most of the men wore aggressively sculpted updos or low-slung man buns.
Five-toe Vibram shoes and neoprene yoga pants were the popular pan-gender wardrobe choices.
This was the vanguard of the quantified-consumer class  health-conscious Angelenos, the same types who were early adopters of the Master Cleanse and green juices.
The event was billed as a cutting-edge biohacking event, but it was tame compared with what goes on at the fringes of this community.
Seven months earlier and about two hours away, in Tehachapi, a much more extreme clique of biohackers gathered to share the recent discoveries from their world at a gathering called GrindFest.
These are the real transhumanists, the kind of people who implant magnets under their skin and embed microchips in their bodies to replace key cards.
Aspreys ethos is not so dissimilar  he wants to push humanity past its biological limits  but his sell is a little more palatable: We need only think of our bodies as hardware in order to improve upon them.
Little of the technology on display at the Bulletproof convention was new.
No one was being implanted or fused with anything.
They preferred to upgrade the old-fashioned way, with a miracle drug or pill or elixir that would transform them from the inside out, and there was no shortage of products that promised to do so.
The Bulletproof Coffee was abundant, as were the Bulletproof-branded collagen bars, grass-fed meat jerky and small paper cups of steaming, earthy bone broth.
There were samples of Fat Water, a new Bulletproof sports drink infused with a certain fatty acid that Asprey believes the body processes into energy more efficiently than it does glucose.
There were Bulletproof-branded supplements, like glutathione, an antioxidant that Asprey says helps detoxify the body.
I narrowly missed the cricket brownies smeared with colostrum icing  the crowd descended on them as soon as they were set out.
I watched a woman drip a tincture made from deer antlers on the eager tongue of a slim and handsome attendee.
I rolled my eyes at a hypnotist putting a woman into a trance, and then, hours later, the same hypnotist talked me into taking an injection of vitamins labeled simply a shine shot.
(He had taken one, too.)
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
There are more than a few nutritionists who are dubious of Aspreys bold claims.
Its hard not to be  theres little research outside his own that backs them up.
Aspreys diet advises against calorie counting.
It is also high in fat.
Marion Nestle, an author and professor of nutrition and public health at New York University, is among those skeptical of what Asprey is selling.
I dont know any diet, exercise or healthful-living shortcuts, she wrote in an emailed exchange.
We all want to live forever, and if changing one thing in our diets can do that, we can all hope.
The success of the dietary-supplement industry is best explained by wish-fulfillment fantasies.
On the day before the conference began, I asked Asprey about his childhood.
He quickly rattled off a few sentences about his parents.
They worked at Sandia National Laboratories, which taught him the value of scientific inquiry.
That wasnt what I had meant.
Were his parents particularly health-oriented?
Or did he grow up eating takeout and frozen meals?
He gave a dismissive shrug.
My parents gave me squeeze margarine and bran muffins because thats what the magazines said, he said.
He paused for a moment, reconsidering.
They did their best.
During the 80s, when Asprey was a kid, eating bran muffins was the fad diet of the day  that, and a little Jazzercise, and youd be set.
Eventually, people came to recognize that the benefits of the fiber were canceled out by the heavy caloric load and sugars.
Margarine was also peaking in popularity around that time, seen then as a sensible alternative to butter.
But since then, nutritionists have questioned the wisdom of the low-fat, high-carb diet that Americans have been steered toward for years.
Aspreys diet is, for all its technological fervor, a refutation of the last generations hollow wisdom.
In its avoidance of complex carbohydrates and its pseudoscientific rhetoric, its not so dissimilar from the Paleo diet  along with a bunch of supplements that would befuddle a cave man, or even a New Yorker.
My own parents were trim and active; they were also Southern, which meant that butter-and-sugar sandwiches and cheese grits were staples of our diet.
I was a heavy teenager, with more acne and eczema than Id like to remember, and it wasnt until my 20s that I understood the role dietary habits played in that.
Since then, Ive endlessly experimented with raw diets, green juices, Paleo-inspired meal plans and various cultish boutique fitness classes, trying to figure out what works best to maintain a healthy weight.
I still dont have a definitive answer.
Fad diets persist because they are seductive, and offer the promise of unlocking a better you by following a few simple rules.
And Aspreys pitch couldnt be more epistemologically fashionable: A/B testing, hacking and data analysis have already provided us with many novel insights and conveniences.
Asprey believes that nutrition should be as effortless as everything else in our technology-enhanced existence  why shouldnt it be?
His background is in information management, and that is what he is skilled at: distilling oceanic volumes of information for easy consumption and decision-making.
The allure of the Bulletproof lifestyle is that you can outsource that work.
That fundamental laziness, where I want everything to be easier, is part of what drives me, he told me that first day.
I dont want to do more work than is necessary to do great things.
I dont see why anyone should do more work than is necessary to do great things.
Photo

From the Well archives.
The chubby, inert pet dog has become a familiar household sight in richer countries.
And yet there lies a possible boon to the out-of-shape among us.
A recent study suggests that being told ones pet is dangerously overweight might provide the impetus that gets an owner moving.
It might seem that having a pet dog would result in considerable physical activity, and thats true, broadly speaking.
A 2013 review of studies related to dog ownership concluded that as a group, dog owners spend almost an hour more per week walking than people without dogs.
Even so, a survey from 2008 conducted in Australia found that nearly a quarter of all dog owners reported never walking their pets.
This population of dog owners, studies show, actually engage in less physical activity each week than people without a dog.
A majority of dog owners, of course, are deeply attached to their pets, whether they walk them or not.
That bond prompted a group of scientists, veterinarians and physicians at the Uniformed Services University of Health Sciences, in Bethesda, Md., and other institutions to consider whether people might be willing to undertake a health-and-fitness regimen targeted at their dog, even if they had little enthusiasm for such a program for themselves.
The researchers recruited 32 dog owners who visited a veterinary clinic in Maryland.
Their dogs varied widely in age, breed and size, but all were overweight or obese and, by and large, sedentary.
So, too, were most of their owners (although the only criterion for their participation was that their dogs be rotund).
Half the volunteers were told by a veterinarian to watch their dogs nutrition and monitor its health.
The rest were told that their dog was overweight and needed more exercise.
These owners were given specific exercise prescriptions, which generally advised walking the dog for at least 30 minutes every day.
Three months later, the volunteers and their dogs were re-evaluated.
Both owners and pets in the dog-walking group had lost weight.
But more interesting, those who had been told only that their pets were worryingly heavy also began exercising their pets and themselves.
They reported walking far more often than they did before they got health warnings for their dogs, and both they and their pets were thinner.
The upshot, says Capt.
Mark B. Stephens M.D., a professor of family medicine at Uniformed Services University and a co-author of the study  it was published in September in the journal Anthrozos  is that love and concern for a dog can be a powerful motivation for exercise.
Which is not to say, he adds, that people should adopt a dog as a kind of fitness device.
Unlike a treadmill, Marley cannot be abandoned in the basement when you tire of working out.
On the other hand, no device will ever be so happy to see you lace up your walking shoes.
Photo



This article appeared in the May 25, 2014 issue of The New York Times Magazine.
Losing weight is simple: Ingest fewer calories than your body burns.
But how best to do that is unclear.
Most experts advise small reductions in calories or increases in exercise to remove weight slowly and sensibly, but many people quit that type of program in the face of glacial progress.
A new study, published in March in The Scandinavian Journal of Medicine & Science in Sports, suggests that minimal calories and maximal exercise can significantly reduce body fat in just four days  and the loss lasts for months.
The catch, of course, is that those four days are pretty grueling.
Researchers in Spain and Sweden had 15 healthy but overweight Swedish men restrict their calories to about 360 a day, a reduction of approximately 1,800 calories.
What calories they did ingest came in liquid form: Some men drank mostly sugary carbohydrates, others a high-protein drink.
The men also exercised  a lot.
Their days began with 45 minutes of cranking an arm-pedaling machine for an upper-body workout.
Then, as a group, the men strolled for eight hours across the Swedish countryside, with only a 10-minute break every hour.
They were allowed as much of a low-calorie, sports-type beverage as they wanted during their walks.
Most of the men were surprised that it was easier than they thought it would be, says Jos Calbet, a professor at the University of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria in Spain; he and his colleague Hans-Christer Holmberg, a professor at Mid Sweden University in Ostersund, led the study.
Some of the subjects experienced minor problems with pain in the joints and blisters on their feet, according to Calbet, but none dropped out or complained of hunger.
After four days, the men had each lost almost 11 pounds, with nearly half of that coming from body fat; the rest of the loss came primarily from muscle mass.
The researchers had anticipated that the high-protein drink would protect people against muscle-mass loss.
In fact, the losses were the same, whether the men had been given sugar or protein.
More surprising, the men did not immediately put the weight back on after the study ended.
We thought they would overeat and regain the weight lost, Dr. Calbet says.
Instead, when the volunteers returned a month later, most had lost another two pounds of fat.
And a year after the experiment, they were still down five pounds, mostly in lost body fat.
Dr. Calbet and his colleagues hope to study whether women respond similarly to men and whether repeated bouts of such a program might affect muscular health and appetite hormones.
But given the doleful statistics on weight loss  most people regain everything they lose dieting and more  these results are startling.
They also, at the moment, are inexplicable.
The only explanation we can offer for the sustained loss, Dr. Calbet says, is that the men were inspired by their hypercompressed success to change their lifestyles.
The men moved more and ate less than before.
Photo

This article appeared in the March 9, 2014 issue of The New York Times Magazine.
Bones should be jarred, for their own good.
Past experiments have definitively established that subjecting bones to abrupt stress prompts them to add mass or at least reduces their loss of mass as people age.
What has been in dispute, however, is how much force is needed to stimulate bone  and how to apply that force in daily life.
Recently researchers at the University of Bristol gathered male and female adolescents  the body accumulates bone mass rapidly at this time of life  and had them go about their daily routines while they wore activity monitors.
The bone density of the volunteers hips was also measured.
A week later, the scientists reclaimed the monitors to check each teenagers exposure to G forces, a measure of impact.
Those who experienced impacts of 4.2 Gs or greater  though these were infrequent  had notably sturdier hipbones.
Additional work done by the same researchers showed that running a 10-minute mile or jumping up onto and down from a box at least 15 inches high was needed to produce forces that great.
The significance of these findings is that people should probably run pretty fast or jump high to generate forces great enough to help build bone.
Unfortunately, few older adults are likely to be doing so.
In follow-up experiments, the same researchers equipped 20 women older than 60 with activity monitors and ran them through an aerobics class, several brief and increasingly brisk walks and a session of stepping onto and off a foot-high box.
None of the women reached the 4-G threshold  none, in fact, generated more than 2.1 Gs of force at any point during the various exercises.
The implications are somewhat concerning.
Dr. Jon Tobias, a professor of rheumatology at the University of Bristol who led the experiments, says that while impacts that produce fewer than 4 Gs of force may help adults maintain bone mass  a possibility that he and his colleagues are exploring in ongoing experiments  its unclear what level of force below 4 Gs is needed.
So, Dr. Tobias says, young people and healthy adults should probably pound the ground, at least sometimes.
Sprint.
Jump off a box 15 inches or higher at your gym and jump back up.
Hop in place.
A study by other researchers published in January found that women between 25 and 50 who hopped at least 10 times twice a day, with 30 seconds between each hop, significantly increased their hipbone density after four months.
Another group of subjects, who hopped 20 times daily, showed even greater gains.
Alas, a kind of Catch-22 confronts older individuals who have not been engaging in high-impact exercise: Their bodies and bones may not be capable of handling the types of activity most likely to improve bone health.
Dr. Tobias and his colleagues hope to better understand what level of impact will benefit these people.
In the meantime, anyone uncertain about the state of his or her bones should consult a physician before undertaking high-impact exercise (a caveat that also applies to those with a history of joint problems, including arthritis).
For his part, Dr. Tobias says, I plan to keep running until my joints wear out.
A number of other factors seem to play a role.
Mothers younger than 20 years or older than 40 have children with a higher infant mortality.
First babies have a higher chance of death than later siblings.
Unmarried mothers also have a higher rate of death in their children, more than 70 percent higher than that of married mothers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The No.
1 cause of infant mortality among newborns is premature birth, which has traditionally been linked with inferior prenatal care.
That may not be the case in the United States.
A 2006 study published in Epidemiology looked at how preterm delivery occurred among women in active-duty military installations.
Such women receive the same prenatal care regardless of race, or even socio-economic status.
Because they were guaranteed care, their overall risk of premature delivery was low, just over 8 percent.
But even among these women, black women were more than two times as likely as white women to deliver prematurely, regardless of military rank.
A Cochrane Systematic Review of the additional support women received during at-risk pregnancies included 17 studies and more than 12,000 women.
Additional care was not associated with any improvements in any perinatal outcomes.
C-sections were less common, as was hospital admission after birth, but infant mortality was not affected.
Another such review examined how the number of prenatal visits affected infant mortality.
Seven studies involved more than 60,000 women in countries of varying income.
There was no difference in high-income countries in the number of deaths of those who had more or fewer visits (although the number of deaths over all was low).
In low- and middle-income countries, perinatal mortality was higher in groups with reduced visits, but the overall difference was small.
The authors concluded that in places where the number of visits was already low, reducing the number of visits further was a bad idea.
This doesnt necessarily apply to standard care in the United States, though.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
A recently published paper in the American Economic Journal: Economic Policy adds to this discussion.
Alice Chen, Emily Oster and Heidi Williams combined data from the United States with data from Finland, Austria, Belgium and Britain.
As other studies have done before, they adjusted for differences in coding of very premature births.
And as other studies found before, the United States has a significant infant mortality disadvantage.
This study was different, however.
It used microdata, or individual records of birth and death, as opposed to the aggregate data usually employed for cross-country comparisons.
First, the researchers differentiated between neonatal mortality (death before one month of age) and postneonatal mortality (death between 1 and 12 months of age).
The results showed that when it comes to neonatal mortality, the United States and other countries were pretty similar.
If anything, the authors report, the United States might have a mortality advantage during this period.
Differences in postneonatal mortality, or from one month to one year, however, were much more stark.
In fact they begin to accelerate at one month of age.
One explanation could be that this is just a delay in deaths.
Perhaps the United States is simply better at keeping these babies alive a little while longer than other countries are.
Differences are seen all the way to one year, though, making this unlikely.
This difference also doesnt appear to be because of race.
A sub-analysis that excluded blacks from the sample still found a similar postneonatal mortality disadvantage in the United States.
Racial differences may be more applicable to neonatal mortality.
Deaths in the postneonatal period are due, in large part, to sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), sudden death and accidents.
Moreover, they seem to occur disproportionately in poor women.
Its not clear that health care is what might reduce deaths in this group.
That doesnt mean theres nothing we can do.
It might even be cost-effective to try.
The authors of this paper estimated how much we might consider spending.
They calculated that decreasing postneonatal mortality to that of comparable European countries might lower the death rate by 1 in 1,000.
Assuming a standard value of $7 million per life, it might make sense to spend $7,000 per infant.
That might seem like a lot of money, but its not out of the realm of what we spend on many other medical interventions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

What exactly we might do with that money is up for debate.
One suggestion made by the authors, with which I agree, is that we consider programs of home nursing visits to reduce the incidence of SIDS and accidents.
But some things do seem evident.
The first is that our constant calls for improved and more prenatal care may not significantly improve our disadvantage in infant mortality.
The second is that spending a significant amount of money on poor women to improve the health of their 1-month to 1-year-olds might not only save lives; it might be cost-effective, too.
One reader acknowledged the appeal of being able to play with ones great-great-grandchildren.
But how in blazes am I supposed to be able to afford to live that long?
asked FJP in Philadelphia.
If the answer is I would have to work to age 85 so I can afford to make it to 120 or beyond, Im not sure Im going to sign up for that.
Still, a number of readers found the study intriguing.
Im not sure how I feel about the idea of a drug to make people live longer, but Im puzzled by all the comments against it, Al Maki from Burnaby, British Columbia, said.
Im 66, and I exercise regularly and pay attention to my diet in the hope that I will live longer and healthier.
Many people do this and many others wish they had the self-discipline.
Im surprised so many people think this is a selfish goal.
Its seems quite normal to me.
Patrick, from Chicago, agreed: Why, oh why, are so many people commenting that were somehow meant to live a finite life span, and that we should just deal with it, and not try to find ways to extend our life?
I say thats ridiculous.
I enjoy my life, and if I could have an extra couple decades, during which Id be healthy, Id be thrilled.
So, I suspect, would many of the naysaying commenters, if actually given the option.
Another reader put the current research into historical context.
Its not about living forever, David Bird from Victoria, British Columbia, explained.
Its about a holistic approach to dealing with age-related illnesses, such as Alzheimers and many cancers.
For those who dismiss or condemn it, life expectancy, at birth, for a white American male rose from 47 to 75 from 1900 to 2000.
For black males it rose from 33 to 68.
You dont think this is unnatural because it is our norm, but it wasnt the norm for our great-grandparents.
If the results found for the mice could be replicated in humans, wed live only 12 percent longer, less than 10 years, but our last years would be healthier, putting much less strain on ourselves, our families, and our medical resources.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Wendy from Wyoming added: I work very closely with individuals who are trying to navigate the Social Security disability process, most of whom are 45-64 years old.
During the most productive time of their financial lives, they are literally impoverished by diseases of early aging  early heart disease, advanced osteoarthritis, early cancer.
I strongly support any treatment which will keep people productive and out of nursing facilities until their 80s and 90s.
Everyone talks about the nature of aging, but one of the truths about the human condition is that we already cheated nature many times over our evolutionary development.
The first hack occurred when the human species was able to grow old enough to transmit valuable survival information from grandparent to grandchild, which corresponded to a dramatic improvement in human survival.
Perhaps the most passionate voices, though, came from readers completely unconcerned about human life span.
Not sure I want to live forever, but my dog?
exclaimed Brian from Montana.
I dont want to live longer, but if dogs could live longer that would be wonderful, a reader named Mary mused.
Beloved dogs are too soon gone from our lives.
The heck with human research  I just want my dogs to live longer, Durt from Los Angeles said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A reader whose dog was among the 40 studied chimed in.
My dog Rascal is featured in the article, and Ive been thrilled with the results of the clinical trial, Rose and Rascal wrote from Seattle.
This drug made Rascals heart beat more efficiently again like it did when he was a younger dog.
Hes happier and friendlier and has more energy.
If it buys me an extra year or two with my big dog  who will not live as long as smaller dogs  then Ill take it.
One thing which did not make it into the article: Rascal is my service dog, as I am disabled.
Rascal is the love of my life, and I have worked hard his entire life to ensure he get high quality food, lots of exercise, and rigorous training to make him the healthiest and happiest dog he can be.
Getting an assist from science nearly 10 years later is a BONUS.
Finally, Concerned Citizen from Anywheresville gave voice to the issues inherent in prolonging either canine or human life.
I lost my dearest and most beloved heart dog four years ago, she explained.
I loved her so much, I would have done literally anything legal or safe to keep her with me a few more years.
If I had the resources, I would have had her cloned.
I was nearly crazy with grief at the loss.
But  if she had not died, the dog I have now would have probably died in a shelter.
As it was, she was waiting for eight months and running out of time, and going kennel crazy.
She was older, and overweight; nobody wanted her.
I wouldnt have gotten a second dog.
So this dog would have died, had my other dog lived.
She added: See?
it is all a cycle and it is all connected.
Is there meaning and purpose behind this?
A grand design?
I guess I wont know myself until the end.
Bathed in a nutrient-rich broth suffused with growth factors, the cells will double and redouble in an incubator over the course of the following two weeks, forming a lush outgrowth of malignant cells  cancer abstracted in a dish.
A computer, taught to count and evaluate cells, will then determine whether any of the drugs killed the cancerous cells or forced them to mature into nearly normal blood.
Far from relying on data from other trials, or patients, the experiment will test Donnas own cancer for its reactivity against a panel of medicines.
Cells, not bodies, entered this preclinical trial, and the results will guide her future treatment.
I explained all this to Donna.
Still, she had a question: What would happen if the drug that appeared to be the most promising proved unsuccessful?
Then well try the next one, I told her.
The experiment, hopefully, will yield more than one candidate, and well go down the list.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Will the medicine be like chemotherapy?
It might, or it might not.
The drug that we end up using might be borrowed from some other disease.
It might be an anti-inflammatory pill, or an asthma drug.
It might be aspirin, for all we know.
My conversation with Donna reflected how much cancer treatment has changed in the last decade.
I grew up as an oncologist in an era of standardized protocols.
Cancers were lumped into categories based on their anatomical site of origin (breast cancer, lung cancer, lymphoma, leukemia), and chemotherapy treatment, often a combination of toxic drugs, was dictated by those anatomical classifications.
The combinations  Adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine, for instance, to treat Hodgkins disease  were rarely changed for individual patients.
The prospect of personalizing therapy was frowned upon: The more you departed from the standard, the theory ran, the more likely the patient would end up being undertreated or improperly managed, risking recurrence.
In hospitals and clinics, computerized systems were set up to monitor an oncologists compliance with standard therapy.
If you chose to make an exception for a particular patient, you had to justify the choice with an adequate excuse.
Big Chemo was watching you.
I memorized the abbreviated names of combination chemo  the first letter of each drug  for my board exams, and I spouted them back to my patients during my clinic hours.
There was something magical and shamanic about the multiletter contractions.
They were mantras imbued with promise and peril: A.B.V.D.
for Hodgkins, C.M.F.
for breast cancer, B.E.P.
for testicular cancer.
The lingo of chemotherapists was like a secret code or handshake; even the capacity to call such baleful poisons by name made me feel powerful.
When my patients asked me for statistical data, I had numbers at my fingertips.
I could summon the precise chance of survival, the probability of relapse, the chance that the chemo would make them infertile or cause them to lose their hair.
I felt omniscient.
Yet as I spoke to Donna that morning, I realized how much that omniscience has begun to wane  unleashing a more experimental or even artisanal approach in oncology.
Most cancer patients are still treated with those hoary standardized protocols, still governed by the anatomical lumping of cancer.
But for patients like Donna, for whom the usual treatments fail to work, oncologists must use their knowledge, wit and imagination to devise individualized therapies.
Increasingly, we are approaching each patient as a unique problem to solve.
Toxic, indiscriminate, cell-killing drugs have given way to nimbler, finer-fingered molecules that can activate or deactivate complex pathways in cells, cut off growth factors, accelerate or decelerate the immune response or choke the supply of nutrients and oxygen.
More and more, we must come up with ways to use drugs as precision tools to jam cogs and turn off selective switches in particular cancer cells.
Trained to follow rules, oncologists are now being asked to reinvent them.
The thought that every individual cancer might require a specific individualized treatment can be profoundly unsettling.
Michael Lerner, a writer who worked with cancer patients, once likened the experience of being diagnosed with cancer to being parachuted out of a plane without a map or compass; now it is the oncologist who feels parachuted onto a strange landscape, with no idea which way to go.
There are often no previous probabilities, and even fewer certainties.
The stakes feel higher, the successes more surprising and the failures more personal.
Earlier, I could draw curtain upon curtain of blame around a patient.
When she did not respond to chemotherapy, it was her fault: She failed.
Now if I cannot find a tool in the growing kit of drugs to target a cancers vulnerabilities, the vector feels reversed: It is the doctor who has failed.
Yet the mapless moment that we are now in may also hold more promise for patients than any that has come before  even if we find the known world shifting under our feet.
We no longer have to treat cancer only with the blunt response of standard protocols, in which the disease is imagined as a uniform, if faceless, opponent.
Instead we are trying to assess the particular personality and temperament of an individual illness, so that we can tailor a response with extreme precision.
Its the idiosyncratic mind of each cancer that we are so desperately trying to capture.
Cancer  and its treatment  once seemed simpler.
In December 1969, a group of cancer advocates led by the philanthropist Mary Lasker splashed their demand for a national war on cancer in a full-page ad in The New York Times: Mr. Nixon: You Can Cure Cancer.
This epitomized the fantasy of a single solution to a single monumental illness.
For a while, the centerpiece of that solution was thought to be surgery, radiation and chemotherapy, a strategy colloquially known as slash and burn.
Using combination chemotherapy, men and women were dragged to the very brink of physiological tolerability but then pulled back just in time to send the cancer, but not its host, careering off the edge.
Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, tens of thousands of people took part in clinical trials, which compared subjects on standard chemo combinations with others administered slightly different combinations of those drugs.
Some responded well, but for many others, relapses and recurrences were routine  and gains were small and incremental for most cancers.
Few efforts were made to distinguish the patients; instead, when the promised cures for most advanced malignancies failed to appear, the doses were intensified and doubled.
In the Margaret Edson play Wit, an English professor who had ovarian cancer recalled the bewildering language of those trials by making up nonsensical names for chemotherapy drugs that had been pumped into her body: I have survived eight treatments of hexamethophosphacil and vinplatin at the full dose, ladies and gentlemen.
I have broken the record.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

To be fair, important lessons were garnered from the trials.
Using combinations of chemotherapy, we learned to treat particular cancers: aggressive lymphomas and some variants of breast, testicular and colon cancers.
But for most men and women with cancer, the clinical achievements were abysmal disappointments.
Records were not broken  but patients were.
A breakthrough came in the 2000s, soon after the Human Genome Project, when scientists learned to sequence the genomes of cancer cells.
Cancer is, of course, a genetic disease at its core.
In cancer cells, mutated genes corrupt the normal physiology of growth and ultimately set loose malignant proliferation.
This characteristic sits at the heart of all forms of cancer: Unlike normal cells, cancer cells have forgotten how to stop dividing (or occasionally, have forgotten how to die).
But once we could sequence tens of thousands of genes in individual cancer specimens, it became clear that uniqueness dominates.
Say two identical-looking breast cancers arise at the same moment in identical twins; are the mutations themselves in the two cancers identical?
Its unlikely: By sequencing the mutations in one twins breast cancer, we might find, say, 74 mutated genes (of the roughly 22,000 total genes in humans).
In her sisters, we might find 42 mutations, and if we looked at a third, unrelated woman with breast cancer, we might find 18.
Among the three cases, there might be a mere five genes that overlap.
The rest are mutations particular to each womans cancer.
Photo

No other human disease is known to possess this degree of genetic heterogeneity.
Adult-onset diabetes, for example, is a complex genetic disease, but it appears to be dominated by variations in only about a dozen genes.
Cancer, by contrast, has potentially unlimited variations.
Like faces, like fingerprints  like selves  every cancer is characterized by its distinctive marks: a set of individual scars stamped on an individual genome.
The iconic illness of the 20th century seems to reflect our cultures obsession with individuality.
If each individual cancer has an individual combination of gene mutations, perhaps this variability explains the extraordinary divergences in responses to treatment.
Gene sequencing allows us to identify the genetic changes that are particular to a given cancer.
We can use that information to guide cancer treatment  in effect, matching the treatment to an individual patients cancer.
Many of the remarkable successes of cancer treatments of the last decades are instances of drugs that were matched to the singular vulnerabilities of individual cancers.
The drug Gleevec, for instance, can kill leukemia cells  but only if the patients cancer cells happen to carry a gene mutation called BCR-ABL.
Tarceva, a targeted therapy for lung cancer, works powerfully if the patients cancer cells happen to possess a particular mutant form of a gene; for lung-cancer patients lacking that mutation, it may be no different from taking a placebo.
Because the medicines target mutations or behaviors that are specific to cancer cells (but not normal cells), many of these drugs have surprisingly minimal toxicities  a far cry from combination chemotherapies of the past.
A few days after Donnas visit to the clinic, I went to my weekly meeting with Raza on the ninth floor of the hospital.
The patient that morning was K.C., a 79-year-old woman with blood cancer.
Raza has been following her disease  and keeping her alive  for a decade.
Her tumor is evolving into acute leukemia, Raza said.
This, too, is a distinctive behavior of some cancers that we can now witness using biopsies, CT scans and powerful new techniques like gene sequencing: We can see the cancers morphing from smoldering variants into more aggressive types before our eyes.
Was the tumor sequenced?
I asked.
Yes, theres a sequence, Raza said, as we leaned toward a screen to examine it.
P53, DNMT3a and Tet2, she read from the list of mutant genes.
And a deletion in Chromosome 5.
In K.C.s cancer, an entire segment of the genome had been lopped off and gone missing  one of the crudest mutations that a tumor can acquire.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

How about ATRA?
I asked.
We had treated a few patients carrying some of K.C.s mutations with this drug and noted a few striking responses.
Id rather try Revlimid, but at a higher dose.
Shes responded to it in the past, and the mutations remain the same.
I have a hunch that it might work.
In the years following his breakthrough, Warburg became convinced that the Warburg effect occurs because cells are unable to use oxygen properly and that this damaged respiration is, in effect, the starting point of cancer.
Well into the 1950s, this theory  which Warburg believed in until his death in 1970 but never proved  remained an important subject of debate within the field.
And then, more quickly than anyone could have anticipated, the debate ended.
In 1953, James Watson and Francis Crick pieced together the structure of the DNA molecule and set the stage for the triumph of molecular biologys gene-centered approach to cancer.
In the following decades, scientists came to regard cancer as a disease governed by mutated genes, which drive cells into a state of relentless division and proliferation.
The metabolic catalysts that Warburg spent his career analyzing began to be referred to as housekeeping enzymes  necessary to keep a cell going but largely irrelevant to the deeper story of cancer.
It was a stampede, says Thomas Seyfried, a biologist at Boston College, of the move to molecular biology.
Warburg was dropped like a hot potato.
There was every reason to think that Warburg would remain at best a footnote in the history of cancer research.
(As Dominic DAgostino, an associate professor at the University of South Florida Morsani College of Medicine, told me, The book that my students have to use for their cancer biology course has no mention of cancer metabolism.)
But over the past decade, and the past five years in particular, something unexpected happened: Those housekeeping enzymes have again become one of the most promising areas of cancer research.
Scientists now wonder if metabolism could prove to be the long-sought Achilles heel of cancer, a common weak point in a disease that manifests itself in so many different forms.
There are typically many mutations in a single cancer.
But there are a limited number of ways that the body can produce energy and support rapid growth.
Cancer cells rely on these fuels in a way that healthy cells dont.
The hope of scientists at the forefront of the Warburg revival is that they will be able to slow  or even stop  tumors by disrupting one or more of the many chemical reactions a cell uses to proliferate, and, in the process, starve cancer cells of the nutrients they desperately need to grow.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Even James Watson, one of the fathers of molecular biology, is convinced that targeting metabolism is a more promising avenue in current cancer research than gene-centered approaches.
At his office at the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory in Long Island, Watson, 88, sat beneath one of the original sketches of the DNA molecule and told me that locating the genes that cause cancer has been remarkably unhelpful  the belief that sequencing your DNA is going to extend your life a cruel illusion.
If he were going into cancer research today, Watson said, he would study biochemistry rather than molecular biology.
I never thought, until about two months ago, Id ever have to learn the Krebs cycle, he said, referring to the reactions, familiar to most high-school biology students, by which a cell powers itself.
Now I realize I have to.
Born in 1883 into the illustrious Warburg family, Otto Warburg was raised to be a science prodigy.
His father, Emil, was one of Germanys leading physicists, and many of the worlds greatest physicists and chemists, including Albert Einstein and Max Planck, were friends of the family.
(When Warburg enlisted in the military during World War I, Einstein sent him a letter urging him to come home for the sake of science.)
Those men had explained the mysteries of the universe with a handful of fundamental laws, and the young Warburg came to believe he could bring that same elegant simplicity and clarity to the workings of life.
Long before his death, Warburg was considered perhaps the greatest biochemist of the 20th century, a man whose research was vital to our understanding not only of cancer but also of respiration and photosynthesis.
In 1931 he won the Nobel Prize for his work on respiration, and he was considered for the award on two other occasions  each time for a different discovery.
Records indicate that he would have won in 1944, had the Nazis not forbidden the acceptance of the Nobel by German citizens.
That Warburg was able to live in Germany and continue his research throughout World War II, despite having Jewish ancestry and most likely being gay, speaks to the German obsession with cancer in the first half of the 20th century.
At the time, cancer was more prevalent in Germany than in almost any other nation.
According to the Stanford historian Robert Proctor, by the 1920s Germanys escalating cancer rates had become a major scandal.
A number of top Nazis, including Hitler, are believed to have harbored a particular dread of the disease; Hitler and Joseph Goebbels took the time to discuss new advances in cancer research in the hours leading up to the Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union.
Whether Hitler was personally aware of Warburgs research is unknown, but one of Warburgs former colleagues wrote that several sources told him that Hitlers entourage became convinced that Warburg was the only scientist who offered a serious hope of producing a cure for cancer one day.
Although many Jewish scientists fled Germany during the 1930s, Warburg chose to remain.
According to his biographer, the Nobel Prize-winning biochemist Hans Krebs, who worked in Warburgs lab, science was the dominant emotion of Warburgs adult life, virtually subjugating all other emotions.
In Krebss telling, Warburg spent years building a small team of specially trained technicians who knew how to run his experiments, and he feared that his mission to defeat cancer would be set back significantly if he had to start over.
But after the war, Warburg fired all the technicians, suspecting that they had reported his criticisms of the Third Reich to the Gestapo.
Warburgs reckless decision to stay in Nazi Germany most likely came down to his astonishing ego.
(Upon learning he had won the Nobel Prize, Warburgs response was, Its high time.)
Modesty was not a virtue of Otto Warburg, says George Klein, a 90-year-old cancer researcher at the Karolinska Institute in Sweden.
As a young man, Klein was asked to send cancer cells to Warburgs lab.
A number of years later, Kleins boss approached Warburg for a recommendation on Kleins behalf.
George Klein has made a very important contribution to cancer research, Warburg wrote.
He has sent me the cells with which I have solved the cancer problem.
Klein also recalls the lecture Warburg gave in Stockholm in 1950 at the 50th anniversary of the Nobel Prize.
Warburg drew four diagrams on a blackboard explaining the Warburg effect, and then told the members of the audience that they represented all that they needed to know about the biochemistry of cancer.
Share Your Story Have you or someone you love had experience with the new science of cancer?
We want to hear from you.
Warburg was so monumentally stubborn that he refused to use the word mitochondria, even after it had been widely accepted as the name for the tiny structures that power cells.
Instead Warburg persisted in calling them grana, the term he came up with when he identified those structures as the site of cellular respiration.
Few things would have been more upsetting to him than the thought of Nazi thugs chasing him out of the beautiful Berlin institute, modeled after a country manor and built specifically for him.
After the war, the Russians approached Warburg and offered to erect a new institute in Moscow.
Klein recalls that Warburg told them with great pride that both Hitler and Stalin had failed to move him.
As Warburg explained to his sister: Ich war vor Hitler da  I was here before Hitler.
Imagine two engines, the one being driven by complete and the other by incomplete combustion of coal, Warburg wrote in 1956, responding to a criticism of his hypothesis that cancer is a problem of energy.
A man who knows nothing at all about engines, their structure and their purpose may discover the difference.
He may, for example, smell it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The complete combustion, in Warburgs analogy, is respiration.
The incomplete combustion, turning nutrients into energy without oxygen, is known as fermentation.
Fermentation provides a useful backup when oxygen cant reach cells quickly enough to keep up with demand.
(Our muscle cells turn to fermentation during intense exercise.)
Warburg thought that defects prevent cancer cells from being able to use respiration, but scientists now widely agree that this is wrong.
A growing tumor can be thought of as a construction site, and as todays researchers explain it, the Warburg effect opens the gates for more and more trucks to deliver building materials (in the form of glucose molecules) to make daughter cells.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
If this theory can explain the why of the Warburg effect, it still leaves the more pressing question of what, exactly, sets a cell on the path to the Warburg effect and cancer.
Scientists at several of the nations top cancer hospitals have spearheaded the Warburg revival, in hopes of finding the answer.
These researchers, typically molecular biologists by training, have turned to metabolism and the Warburg effect because their own research led each of them to the same conclusion: A number of the cancer-causing genes that have long been known for their role in cell division also regulate cells consumption of nutrients.
Craig Thompson, the president and chief executive of the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, has been among the most outspoken proponents of this renewed focus on metabolism.
In Thompsons analogy, the Warburg effect can be thought of as a social failure: a breakdown of the nutrient-sharing agreement that single-celled organisms signed when they joined forces to become multicellular organisms.
His research showed that cells need to receive instructions from other cells to eat, just as they require instructions from other cells to divide.
Thompson hypothesized that if he could identify the mutations that lead a cell to eat more glucose than it should, it would go a long way toward explaining how the Warburg effect and cancer begin.
But Thompsons search for those mutations didnt lead to an entirely new discovery.
Instead, it led him to AKT, a gene already well known to molecular biologists for its role in promoting cell division.
Thompson now believes AKT plays an even more fundamental role in metabolism.
The protein created by AKT is part of a chain of signaling proteins that is mutated in up to 80 percent of all cancers.
Thompson says that once these proteins go into overdrive, a cell no longer worries about signals from other cells to eat; it instead stuffs itself with glucose.
Thompson discovered he could induce the full Warburg effect simply by placing an activated AKT protein into a normal cell.
When that happens, Thompson says, the cells begin to do what every single-celled organism will do in the presence of food: eat as much as it can and make as many copies of itself as possible.
When Thompson presents his research to high-school students, he shows them a slide of mold spreading across a piece of bread.
The slides heading  Everyones first cancer experiment  recalls Warburgs observation that cancer cells will carry out fermentation at almost the same rate of wildly growing yeasts.
Just as Thompson has redefined the role of AKT, Chi Van Dang, director of the Abramson Cancer Center at the University of Pennsylvania, has helped lead the cancer world to an appreciation of how one widely studied gene can profoundly influence a tumors metabolism.
In 1997, Dang became one of the first scientists to connect molecular biology to the science of cellular metabolism when he demonstrated that MYC  a so-called regulator gene well known for its role in cell proliferation  directly targets an enzyme that can turn on the Warburg effect.
Dang recalls that other researchers were skeptical of his interest in a housekeeping enzyme, but he stuck with it because he came to appreciate something critical: Cancer cells cant stop eating.
Unlike healthy cells, growing cancer cells are missing the internal feedback loops that are designed to conserve resources when food isnt available.
Theyre addicted to nutrients, Dang says; when they cant consume enough, they begin to die.
The addiction to nutrients explains why changes to metabolic pathways are so common and tend to arise first as a cell progresses toward cancer: Its not that other types of alterations cant arise first, but rather that, when they do, the incipient tumors lack the access to the nutrients they need to grow.
Dang uses the analogy of a work crew trying to put up a building.
If you dont have enough cement, and you try to put a lot of bricks together, youre going to collapse, he says.
Photo

Metabolism-centered therapies have produced some tantalizing successes.
Agios Pharmaceuticals, a company co-founded by Thompson, is now testing a drug that treats cases of acute myelogenous leukemia that have been resistant to other therapies by inhibiting the mutated versions of the metabolic enzyme IDH 2.
In clinical trials of the Agios drug, nearly 40 percent of patients who carry these mutations are experiencing at least partial remissions.
Researchers working in a lab run by Peter Pedersen, a professor of biochemistry at Johns Hopkins, discovered that a compound known as 3-bromopyruvate can block energy production in cancer cells and, at least in rats and rabbits, wipe out advanced liver cancer.
(Trials of the drug have yet to begin.)
At Penn, Dang and his colleagues are now trying to block multiple metabolic pathways at the same time.
In mice, this two-pronged approach has been able to shrink some tumors without debilitating side effects.
Dang says the hope is not necessarily to find a cure but rather to keep cancer at bay in a smoldering quiet state, much as patients treat their hypertension.
Warburg, too, appreciated that a tumors dependence upon a steady flow of nutrients might eventually prove to be its fatal weakness.
Long after his initial discovery of the Warburg effect, he continued to research the enzymes involved in fermentation and to explore the possibility of blocking the process in cancer cells.
The challenge Warburg faced then is the same one that metabolism researchers face today: Cancer is an incredibly persistent foe.
Blocking one metabolic pathway has been shown to slow down and even stop tumor growth in some cases, but tumors tend to find another way.
You block glucose, they use glutamine, Dang says, in reference to another primary fuel used by cancers.
You block glucose and glutamine, they might be able to use fatty acids.
We dont know yet.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Given Warburgs own story of historical neglect, its fitting that what may turn out to be one of the most promising cancer metabolism drugs has been sitting in plain sight for decades.
That drug, metformin, is already widely prescribed to decrease the glucose in the blood of diabetics (76.9 million metformin prescriptions were filled in the United States in 2014).
In the years ahead, its likely to be used to treat  or at least to prevent  some cancers.
Because metformin can influence a number of metabolic pathways, the precise mechanism by which it achieves its anticancer effects remains a source of debate.
But the results of numerous epidemiological studies have been striking.
Diabetics taking metformin seem to be significantly less likely to develop cancer than diabetics who dont  and significantly less likely to die from the disease when they do.
Near the end of his life, Warburg grew obsessed with his diet.
He believed that most cancer was preventable and thought that chemicals added to food and used in agriculture could cause tumors by interfering with respiration.
He stopped eating bread unless it was baked in his own home.
He would drink milk only if it came from a special herd of cows, and used a centrifuge at his lab to make his cream and butter.
Warburgs personal diet is unlikely to become a path to prevention.
But the Warburg revival has allowed researchers to develop a hypothesis for how the diets that are linked to our obesity and diabetes epidemics  specifically, sugar-heavy diets that can result in permanently elevated levels of the hormone insulin  may also be driving cells to the Warburg effect and cancer.
The insulin hypothesis can be traced to the research of Lewis Cantley, the director of the Meyer Cancer Center at Weill Cornell Medical College.
In the 1980s, Cantley discovered how insulin, which is released by the pancreas and tells cells to take up glucose, influences what happens inside a cell.
Cantley now refers to insulin and a closely related hormone, IGF-1 (insulinlike growth factor 1), as the champion activators of metabolic proteins linked to cancer.
Hes beginning to see evidence, he says, that in some cases, it really is insulin itself thats getting the tumor started.
One way to think about the Warburg effect, says Cantley, is as the insulin, or IGF-1, signaling pathway gone awry  its cells behaving as though insulin were telling it to take up glucose all the time and to grow.
Cantley, who avoids eating sugar as much as he can, is currently studying the effects of diet on mice that have the mutations that are commonly found in colorectal and other cancers.
He says that the effects of a sugary diet on colorectal, breast and other cancer models looks very impressive and rather scary.
Elevated insulin is also strongly associated with obesity, which is expected soon to overtake smoking as the leading cause of preventable cancer.
Cancers linked to obesity and diabetes have more receptors for insulin and IGF-1, and people with defective IGF-1 receptors appear to be nearly immune to cancer.
Retrospective studies, which look back at patient histories, suggest that many people who develop colorectal, pancreatic or breast cancer have elevated insulin levels before diagnosis.
Its perhaps not entirely surprising, then, that when researchers want to grow breast-cancer cells in the lab, they add insulin to the tissue culture.
When they remove the insulin, the cancer cells die.
I think theres no doubt that insulin is pro-cancer, Watson says, with respect to the link between obesity, diabetes and cancer.
Its as good a hypothesis as we have now.
Watson takes metformin for cancer prevention; among its many effects, metformin works to lower insulin levels.
Not every cancer researcher, however, is convinced of the role of insulin and IGF-1 in cancer.
Robert Weinberg, a researcher at M.I.T.s Whitehead Institute who pioneered the discovery of cancer-causing genes in the 80s, has remained somewhat cool to certain aspects of the cancer-metabolism revival.
Weinberg says that there isnt yet enough evidence to know whether the levels of insulin and IGF-1 present in obese people are sufficient to trigger the Warburg effect.
Its a hypothesis, Weinberg says.
I dont know if its right or wrong.
During Warburgs lifetime, insulins effects on metabolic pathways were even less well understood.
But given his ego, its highly unlikely that he would have considered the possibility that anything other than damaged respiration could cause cancer.
He died sure that he was right about the disease.
Warburg framed a quote from Max Planck and hung it above his desk: A new scientific truth does not triumph by convincing its opponents and making them see the light, but rather because its opponents eventually die.
Once Andrews illness was diagnosed, he needed a bone-marrow transplant as swiftly as possible.
First the doctors had to kill the leukemic cells in Andrews bone marrow with chemotherapy, then replace them with a donors cells.
Andrews 3-year-old sister, Lea, and his 5-year-old brother, Wills, were tested, and in the familys first bit of luck since the diagnosis, Wills turned out to be a perfect donor match.
Andrew underwent two rounds of chemotherapy, but there were still traces of cancer when the transplant was performed in February 2015, putting the outcome at high risk of failure.
The Levys had created a Lotsa Helping Hands website, where friends signed up to host play dates or deliver meals (as did our family because our children were in the same school as Wills), and a Facebook group for updates on Andrews illness, which 1,700 people joined.
But despite all the support, Esther felt deeply alone with the experience, she says.
Her former life had vanished: She was living in Andrews hospital room, sleeping on a sofa that opened into a hard bed.
She had left her job and the rest of her family while Dan continued to work and live at home with Wills and Lea.
Her nights were punctured by Andrews cries; her days were spent frantically trying to distract him from his pain and nausea, cleaning up his vomit, holding him down during blood draws and making stressful medical decisions.
He screamed if she left him for a few minutes, even to use the bathroom or shower.
After Esther and Andrew spent three months in the hospital, the entire family moved into a nearby apartment, in order to live in a smaller space they could keep immaculately clean while waiting for Andrews new immune system to develop.
Esther remained Andrews full-time nurse, responsible for a dizzyingly complex regimen of medications and sterile changes of the IV.
A bone-marrow test that April showed no traces of cancer, and Andrew was considered to be in remission.
They posted videos of him banging on his drums and singing with his toy Elmo and pretending to play golf.
They decided that when Andrew was well enough, they would not return to their old home but begin a new life.
They found a house in the nearby town of Atherton in the style of an English country manor, encircled by hedges and white rose bushes, that suggested privacy and safety.
Andrew was too vulnerable to leave the apartment, so Esther could not go to see the house in person, but they bought it anyway, and she made plans with a decorator friend to create an airplane-themed room for Andrew.
But on June 19, the medical team told Esther and Dan that there was bad news again: Andrews cancer had returned.
The number of cells was small but would inevitably grow, the doctors explained.
The team presented a new plan: They would begin chemotherapy again in preparation for a second bone-marrow transplant, perhaps using cord blood this time.
Oh, God, Esther said, putting her head in her hands.
She felt she could not go through it all again.
And there was no reason to think it would work.
The odds of success during the first transplant had been long; in a second attempt, they would be much more so.
But the odds that it would cause all of us more suffering were 100 percent, she told me.
From the initial diagnosis, Dan had determined that their goal was not simply to help Andrew survive but to keep the family intact.
To choose to move back into the hospital, where they believed Andrew would die, was a fundamental violation of every promise we made to ourselves and our kids that we would be together again, he told me.
He felt the family had just started to heal from the months of separation.
The emotional scars of the experience, he said, would be irreparable if we ripped them open and split our family apart again.
They decided to stop treatment.
They would move to their new house, where Andrew would spend whatever time he had splashing in their swimming pool and playing in the grass with Wills and Lea.
Share Your Story Have you or someone you love had experience with the new science of cancer?
We want to hear from you.
The doctors were stunned.
We love you, and we love Andrew and were not ready to give up, Jennifer Willert, the pediatric oncologist in charge of the transplant, blurted out.
Lacayo and Willert argued for at least trying some palliative chemotherapy to prolong Andrews life.
Esther and Dan hesitated but ultimately declined.
They called their decorator friend and told her to return the furniture for Andrews new room.
She was one of the first people to whom they told the news: Andrew was going to die.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Levys posted the news of their decision on June 22.
They explained their thinking and asked their friends not to question their choices, recommend new treatment options, tell them about Gods plan or insist that there was hope.
I truly believe that I have a new way of looking at parenting  it is not about the length of life that matters, but the quality of life, Esther wrote.
We are going to focus on quality.
But quality time with a doomed child turned out to be impossible.
The cancer cells were few enough that they were not yet making Andrew sick, but, Esther posted, I cant think of anything more painful than spending time with your precious baby knowing that he is going to die soon.
Parenting is teleological; parents rear a child to become an adult.
What were their goals for Andrew now?
I am no longer raising him to grow up to be a wonderful human being, Esther wrote.
Should she let him eat junk food or watch videos on the iPad all day?
Did it matter?
Their older kids asked tormenting questions.
Lea wanted to know whether they could buy Andrew a certain toy when he was 4 years old like her.
Wills wanted to know why they had Andrew if they knew he was going to be sick all the time.
Dan read them Mo Willemss book Waiting Is Not Easy!
about an impatient elephant.
As he read, he thought about the waiting that had engulfed them over the previous nine months.
They had waited to get the right diagnosis; they had waited 100 days for the transplanted cells to grow; they had waited for the results from the bone-marrow tests to see if the cancer was gone.
Now there are no more diagnoses, Dan wrote on Facebook.
No more tests.
And no more milestones.
But there is waiting.
Maybe hours, or days, or weeks.
This was the most agonizing of all: the wait for Andrews death.
On July 1, they moved into their new house, and Andrew became sick.
By the holiday weekend, he was moaning or screaming in pain whenever he was awake.
Dan took a leave of absence from work.
Esther held Andrew at all times, his body draped over hers on the couch or the bed.
Dan took food to her because she couldnt hold him and sit up at the dinner table.
Her hair began to fall out because of the stress.
It was unbearable for him and for us, she says.
Photo

The hospice team began to come every day to try to control the pain with high doses of opioids.
Harvey Cohen, an oncologist and the medical director of the hospitals palliative-care program, explained to them that as the disease progressed, Andrew would not have enough platelets for his blood to clot.
A hospice nurse told them to buy dark towels for Andrews crib, so that if he started to bleed uncontrollably, the sight would be less frightening for his siblings and for them.
During the second week of July, the hospice team told them to prepare for Andrews imminent death.
They called a rabbi, and thinking about how Andrew loved airplanes, they picked a Jewish cemetery near the airport.
Not wanting him to be buried alone, they purchased grave sites for themselves as well.
They established an Andrew Levy Memorial Fund to raise money for music therapy at the Lucile Packard Childrens Hospital.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The members of their medical team visited their home to say goodbye.
Andrew had stopped eating.
He was barely moving, his breathing raspy and his complexion sallow, with the particular look the team knew from other dying children.
Sometimes he stopped breathing momentarily, and his body would become rigid, and his face turn blue.
Its O.K.
for you to go, Esther told him.
All she wanted now was for this to end quickly.
They called Wills and Lea into the living room  a room the kids rarely entered.
Esther pulled them close to her on the couch, and Dan sat on a cushion on the floor.
They had rehearsed what they were going to say with Barbara Sourkes, a hospital psychiatrist with whom they had grown close, and they made an audio recording of this moment in case they needed to discuss it with her later.
Dan told the children that the transplant had been a success, and that Willss cells had done a great job, but that Andrews cells needed to work on their own at some point, and they werent.
His body is just not working, he said, as straightforwardly as he could manage.
Is Andrew going to get better?
Wills asked.
The doctors dont think so, Wills.
Sourkes had advised them to tell the children only what they needed to know so as not to overwhelm them, because the children needed emotional space to process things their own way.
So Andrew  Andrew is going to die at some point, Dan said.
We dont know when.
Photo

I dont like that Andrew is going to die!
Lea exclaimed and started crying.
Wills pulled the hood of his sweatshirt over his face and said he didnt want to talk about it.
Andrew is going to die, so that means we are only going to have four people in our family, Lea said unhappily.
She asked if they could get a new baby to replace Andrew, and she and Wills began to fantasize about a new baby who would make everything all better.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Esther returned to Andrew.
I promise, I promise you, we are not going to forget him, she said.
You are always going to have a brother named Andrew because he is always your brother, now and forever.
Andrews pieces of love will always be in our heart, Lea said, and then they all agreed to watch Mickey Mouse together.
The vigil stretched on through the summer, and what they called mirages began to appear.
In late July, Esther was sitting outside with Barbara Sourkes, holding Andrew and watching Wills shoot baskets.
Suddenly Andrew sat up and reached for a ball and managed to throw it through his own little basketball hoop.
Esther and Barbara were speechless.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

At first the mirages were brief  Andrew would laugh when Lea showed him her bellybutton or would stack blocks for 10 minutes  and then he would lapse back into pained lethargy for the rest of the day.
But soon these episodes began to lengthen.
For Esther, the mirages did not feel like miracles but evil tricks.
She went through intense surges of anger.
I felt like, How many trials are we going to have to endure?
she says.
Are we being spared nothing?
Photo

Esther started sending the medical team videos.
Andrew is eating pizza, Andrew is sitting up, Andrew is laughing, Lacayo, their oncologist, recounts.
And we are like, What?
In August, as the team struggled to account for what was happening, they theorized that in July, when everyone assumed Andrew was dying of cancer, he must have had a terrible infection instead, which passed.
It didnt change the prognosis: The doctors stressed that, while Andrew might continue to recover from that infection as his new immune system took hold, the cancer cells were also growing and would eventually overwhelm him.
After a blood test showed that his platelets were low, Cohen, the palliative-care doctor, urged them to accept transfusions to increase Andrews platelets so that, even though he was going to die, it would not be from bleeding to death.
But at the hospital, it turned out, mysteriously, that Andrew had more platelets than at his last blood test, so there was no need for a transfusion that day.
When Dan suggested giving him vitamins, Esther snapped at him.
He seemed to be taking the anomalous blood test to mean Andrew was getting better, when, she says, I had no hope, and I needed not to have hope in order to function.
And then they both apologized.
In September, Andrew began to walk again, and his appetite and energy and dark curls grew.
Dan decided to return to work.
Andrew turned 2  a birthday his parents had never thought he would reach and knew would be his last.
Esther recalls how friends urged them to enjoy every moment, and how she would tell them: No, this is hell, and it sucks.
He is still going to die, so there is nothing joyous about this time.
When they first got Andrews diagnosis, she told a night nurse that she just wanted to get her happy-go-lucky little boy back for a single hour.
She had not understood then that any reprieve would only mean that they would have to go through losing him all over again  and each return will be harder than the last as Andrew grows and bonds with us, she wrote in a post.
By October, Andrew was healthier than he had been in a year, running and playing ball with his siblings.
None of the doctors had ever seen this kind of recovery before.
They decided to bring him back to the hospital for a bone-marrow test.
Photo

Michael Loken, who had analyzed Andrews blood work, had not been surprised that Andrews cancer returned.
He had been working on a paper about R.A.M., the genetic marker that Andrew had.
He had tracked 19 other cases of children with the phenotype; three years after the diagnosis, only two were still alive and healthy.
When he examined Andrews marrow this time, using a sample of 200,000 cells, he got goose bumps.
He repeated the test with 500,000 cells.
Then he called Lacayo with the news.
The cancer had disappeared.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

How could cancer spontaneously disappear?
It does feel a bit like a miracle, says Jennifer Willert, the transplant doctor, echoing the sentiments of others.
Noting the rare evocation of a concept that stands outside science, Loken says: It certainly defied our expectations with no discernible basis of happening.
I guess this may be the definition of a miracle.
The medical team grasped for a scientific explanation.
Because Andrew had received no treatment over the summer, the answer had to lie in the bone-marrow transplant of Willss cells.
Their main theory was that the infection that nearly killed Andrew in July had triggered a huge increase in his new white blood cells  and that heightened immune response had attacked not only the infection but the cancer cells as well.
The doctors theorized that the response was partly a product of timing: The cancer had returned just as Andrews new immune system grew strong enough to destroy the cancer cells.
A critical part of why transplants work is that some of the white blood cells, the T cells, that grow from the transplanted bone marrow will attack any lingering cancer cells, an effect known as graft versus leukemia.
Chemotherapy rarely kills every last cancer cell, so it is believed that without graft versus leukemia, the cancer will eventually grow back.
This is often spoken of as a model of so-called immunotherapy  stimulating the patients own immune system to attack cancer cells  which is widely regarded as one of the most promising avenues for cancer treatment.
Willert had made a key decision to depart from Stanfords protocol to increase Andrews chances of getting a robust graft versus leukemia effect.
Typically, a leukemia patient receives immune-suppressing drugs for at least 100 days (and often much longer) in order to avoid a serious side effect called graft versus host disease, in which new T cells attack not only the cancer cells but also the patients skin, liver and gastrointestinal tract.
The art of a transplant is said to be maximizing graft versus leukemia while minimizing graft versus host.
Willert, who is now at the University of California, San Francisco, Benioff Childrens Hospital, had advocated a rapid early taper of Andrews immune-suppressing drugs on Day 60, as is the practice at U.C.S.F.
and other places, because she felt that the benefits outweighed the risk of graft versus host.
I fought for it because I have seen the power of getting rid of immune suppressants and letting the cells do their job, she says.
After all, thats the whole point of a transplant!
The final, critical decision was made against medical advice: Esther and Dans resolution to stop treatment and let Andrew die.
Had they permitted more chemotherapy, the treatment would have killed Willss cells, which were what ultimately enabled Andrew to live.
When you have a child with a life-threatening illness, you have an irrevocably altered existence, Barbara Sourkes had told the Levys, and Esther feels that is true.
She had always felt in control of her fate, but now she believes this to be a fiction.
She finds it difficult to reconcile bitterness over the blight of Andrews illness with gratitude for the reprieve.
We are the luckiest of the unluckiest people in the world, she says.
I truly believe that.
The story presents itself to her as a riddle that cannot be resolved.
She recalls her anger when others told them to hope.
Is the lesson that their friends were right and there is always hope?
Yet it was only by letting go of hope and accepting Andrews death that he lived.
She has not returned to work.
My full-time job is to help the kids feel safe again, she says.
But it is hard for her to feel safe.
The two years after a transplant are the riskiest time for a relapse; after two years that likelihood plummets, and after five years, a patient is considered cured.
The two-year mark is still nine months away.
There are only two states after such a diagnosis: disease and uncertainty, Cohen had told them.
Either he will die soon, and thats certain  or he will continue on, and you will live with that constant balance of hope and fear.
But the balance will change as time goes on.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Only in the past few weeks, Esther says, has she been able to feel that she isnt testing fate by scheduling a dentist appointment for Andrew six months out or by feeling moments of joy watching him without being shadowed by fear of the future.
Day by day, she says, we are allowing ourselves to celebrate a little more.
Lorch sat with Grace and Joe in a cream-colored exam room, a red biohazard box nestled under one counter, and explained that all the standard treatments had been exhausted.
He told them about an experimental trial for aggressive thyroid cancers that hadnt responded to standard treatments, and Grace agreed to enroll.
The drug, everolimus, was used in transplant surgery to prevent rejection, and it had been approved for some use in cancer.
Lorch had seen indications that the drug could work in the thyroid, but he didnt have high hopes for the anaplastic cases  its long track record had been too dismal.
Partly we were motivated, Lorch told me, by the fact that we didnt have anything else.
In the days after starting the trial, Grace found herself standing in front of the mirror in her bedroom, taking in her diminished reflection, beseeching God to give her some kind of sign.
If her time had come, she wanted to know, for the sake of her husband and three children.
If Im going to die, I need time to prepare, she recalled thinking at the time.
Either way, she felt sure that God would hold her by her right hand, as in one of her most cherished lines from the book of Isaiah.
Two months later, in May, Joe drove Grace to Dana-Farber for her follow-up scan.
Lying motionless as the CT scanner began its inquiries, she thought of Isaiah and prayed.
If the everolimus had failed to slow the cancers advance, it would be time to begin the work of getting her affairs in order.
But the scan results, plain to even an untrained eye, were shocking: The largest mass had shrunk to half its previous size.
Everywhere there were signs of retreat.
Lorch said he had never seen such a rout.
All six of the other anaplastic thyroid patients on the trial eventually died, but Graces tumors shrank until they barely registered.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Graces case became the subject of intense scientific scrutiny.
How could such a notoriously recalcitrant cancer simply collapse?
Why had she alone responded so extremely?
Nobody was claiming that she was cured.
But by the end of 2011, Grace felt this much was sure: Having asked for a sign, she had become a walking miracle.
What happened to Grace is sometimes called by another biblical name: the Lazarus effect, after the story in which Jesus stands outside the tomb of Lazarus of Bethany and summons him back to life.
Many veteran oncologists have seen cases like Graces, and the stories of these unlikely recoveries, shared online or by word of mouth, have become a source of hope for patients.
Yet for the field itself, the Lazarus effect has been a source of persistent frustration.
In 2011, for example, the Food and Drug Administration withdrew its support for the treatment of breast cancer with Avastin, a drug with proven efficacy on tumors in other organs.
Some breast-cancer patients had experienced powerful responses  and owed their lives to the drug  but most patients werent helped and were instead exposed to unnecessary side effects.
With no way to predict the results, the drug was as good as useless.
Today patients like Grace have come to be known as exceptional responders, and cancer researchers have finally begun to unravel the puzzles they pose.
In a cancer, some of the bodys cells develop genetic aberrations, growing and spreading uncontrollably, and there are myriad variations on this theme.
While physicians recognize hundreds of types of the disease, genetic analyses suggest that the true number is far higher.
The closer that scientists look at tumors, the more mutations they find, to the point where it may be impossible to count the types of cancer.
Really, every patient suffers her own personal cancer, and when a drug is perfectly aligned to it  to the exact set of mutations driving the tumor  the result is an exceptional response.
In such a case, if scientists could catalog the tumors mutations, they would have a shot at reconstructing a play-by-play  how the conflagration began, how the drug smothered it  and, from this, gain insights that could help others.
The power of this approach was first demonstrated a few years ago, at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
In April 2009, Sharon K., who was 68 at the time, had been told by her local doctor that her bladder cancer had morphed into a muscle-invasive form: It had become aggressive and difficult to contain.
At Sloan Kettering, she was given chemotherapy, followed by a cystectomy, which involved removing the bladder and fashioning a new one out of a portion of small intestine.
I felt like my insides were going to fall out, said Sharon, who asked that her last name not be used to protect her privacy.
Still, a few months later, the cancer returned.
In February 2010, running out of alternatives, Sharon joined a clinical trial at the center, with instructions to take two pills every morning and return for regular checkups.
Thousands of trials are open in the United States on any given day, and for people like Sharon, who traveled from Florida to take part, they are an opportunity to take advantage of the latest scientific ideas.
But the odds are generally long: Historically, less than 7 percent of cancer drugs tested in humans eventually win F.D.A.
approval.
At Sharons first follow-up scan, the tumors were in recession; within months, they were gone.
Her doctors were thrilled.
And yet the trial Sharon had joined was a failure.
Of the 44 other patients, just one saw his tumor shrink in a meaningful way.
Dr. David Solit, a researcher at Sloan Kettering, joined a meeting with his colleagues there to discuss the trials results, and he remembers the feeling in the room, familiar to anyone in the field.
O.K., weve had no new effective bladder cancer treatments for 30 years, and we did yet another clinical trial that was [based on] a reasonable idea, he recalled.
This is a disappointment.
Now lets give up and move on to the next thing.
But before they did, they wanted to look into Sharons exceptional response.
In the previous few years, a new technique called next-generation sequencing had made reading an entire genetic code exponentially faster and cheaper.
Curious to see what the technology was capable of, Solit and his colleagues sent Sharons tissue to Illumina, a sequencing company with headquarters in California.
Three months later, Illumina sent back what amounted to two Human Genome Projects: a complete readout of her DNA, totaling some three billion base pairs of code, and then another, equally large, for her tumor.
After months of investigation, considering the potential significance of the tumors various mutations, the researchers settled on a prime suspect, a gene called TSC1.
When they re-examined the failed clinical trial, they discovered that the bladder-cancer patients genetically similar to Sharon had done noticeably better, staying in the trial substantially longer.
The problem hadnt been the drug, but knowing exactly who should receive it.
When Sharons doctors published a paper on their findings in the journal Science, researchers at the National Cancer Institute in Bethesda, Md., immediately understood the broader implications.
They sifted through a decade of failed clinical trials, thousands of cases, and found that more than 100 patients had experienced impressive positive effects.
More Sharons were out there, each potentially harboring a secret about how to defeat cancer.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In 2014, the institute started the Exceptional Responders Initiative, and since then the case reports have come in, each a tantalizing mystery.
What explains the patient with a Stage 4 esophageal cancer that spread to the liver but then disappeared three years ago?
Or the Stage 4 adenocarcinoma patient who experienced a complete remission?
What can we learn, from each Lazarus, about how to save the lives of others?
The first surviving record of treating cancer dates to around 1600 B.C., in an ancient Egyptian papyrus: tumors of the breast, excised and cauterized with what is described as a fire drill.
In the centuries since, oncology has retained something of this elemental character.
It is a bodily assault, brutal but necessary, guided largely by trial and error.
The Boston hospital where Grace was treated takes its name from the cancer researcher Sidney Farber, who pioneered a treatment for childhood leukemia in the 1940s using aminopterin, a poison that racked his young charges but held the disease at bay, at least for a time.
What works and what does not with one generation of patients is used to guide treatment for the next.
Today, a better understanding of cancers workings is transforming treatment, as oncologists learn to attack tumors not according to their place of origin but by the mutations that drive them.
The dream is to go much deeper, to give an oncologist a listing of all a tumors key mutations and their biological significance, making it possible to put aside the rough typology that currently reigns and understand each patients personal cancer.
Every patient, in this future situation, could then be matched to the ideal treatment and, with luck, all responses would be exceptional.
This idea, more broadly, has been called precision medicine: the hope that doctors will be able to come to a far more exact understanding of each patients disease, informed by genetics, and treat it accordingly.
It is in cancer where this has advanced the furthest, and the exceptional responders provide a glimpse of what precision medicine might mean.
When Graces tumor was sequenced, scientists found a mutation in TSC2, a sister gene to TSC1, the one mutated in Sharons cancer.
Sharon, like Grace, had responded to everolimus, and so the genetic similarity suggested that their cases were not flukes, that their seemingly different cancers shared a deep connection.
In this sense, Graces anaplastic thyroid cancer more closely resembled Sharons bladder cancer than other thyroid cancers.
A more precise oncology would have assigned both to everolimus on purpose, not by chance.
Still, the two womens tumors were not identical: While Sharons cancer vanished, Graces still lingered, even if it was harder to discern.
Graces disease barely showed on the scans, and she looked healthy; friends and family found themselves forgetting, from time to time, how seriously ill she was.
Dr. Nikhil Wagle, a Dana-Farber physician and scientist who worked on the genetic analysis of her tumor, was once involved in the case of a 38-year-old man with metastatic melanoma.
A photo, taken when he joined a trial for the drug vemurafenib, shows the mans chest, pale with a greenish cast, covered in large, oblong tumorous bumps.
Cancer derives from the Greek for crab, and in this case, it was easy to see how the ancients imagined crab claws in cancers eruptions.
After 15 weeks, though, another photo shows the mans chest almost completely smooth, its healthy color restored.
Lazarus, touched by vemurafenib.
Then, two months later, the mans chest is wan and bandaged, with protrusions so substantial that they are visible in profile at his neck.
He died in hospice.
In June 2012, a year after Graces miraculous recovery, Maddox, the first of her three grandchildren, was born.
The happy beginning of the next generation was all the more meaningful for Grace because she had not expected to witness it.
But cancer doesnt rest, and Graces doctors knew she faced the same threat as the man with metastatic melanoma.
If a tumor cannot be eliminated, drug resistance is the rule.
As the biological machinery goes awry inside a cancerous mass, reproducing cells make more errors copying their DNA, releasing a stream of mutants.
The everolimus had made conditions harsh, but if a mutant should arise that could thrive despite the drug, it would divide, and divide again, eventually taking over and spreading.
Darwins survival of the fittest governs inside a tumor, selecting for a crueler version of the disease.
The cancer was looking for a new way out.
Grace is a pioneer, which means that others might learn from her.
But it also means that her doctor, Jochen Lorch, has no precedents to guide him, because her case is without precedent.
Within months of Maddoxs birth, he had to tell Grace that a substantial mass had appeared near her right lung and that several smaller nodules had taken root nearby.
The tumor was progressing  surely one of medicines most perverse coinages.
When Grace became resistant to the everolimus, Lorch decided to try a pharmaceutical cousin, temsirolimus.
(Resistant tumors sometimes stick to the same basic escape plan.)
Lorch also asked if she would be willing to undergo a biopsy, so that the resistant tumor could be sequenced and compared with the original.
This, he explained, might help future patients who faced everolimus resistance.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

To understand that cancer is genetic is also to realize that the disease lurks within a biological system that has about 20,000 genes, each vulnerable in many ways.
Some day, researchers hope to be able to develop a comprehensive resistance map for cancer, a full accounting of the ways that the disease, in all its varieties, defeats different therapies.
The sequence of Graces resistant tumor could fill in one tiny part of such a map.
Eventually, some scientists believe, treatments for most cancers could come in the form of multiple advanced therapeutics, applied in parallel.
One would be aimed at containing the tumors current mutations, while the others would target its favorite backups.
Hemmed in and blocked from shifting to Plans B or C or D, the insurrection would collapse.
When Lorch suggested the biopsy, Grace was preparing for her grandson Maddoxs dedication ceremony, and she knew that any surgical complications might put her attendance at risk.
But her faith assured her that there was a reason she had happened into Lorchs care  that any adversities she faced would eventually lead to a greater good.
She is deeply convinced that what we are doing here, and what is happening with her, is all part of a plan, Lorch says.
At Maddoxs ceremony in November 2012, Graces ribs flared with every breath.
The biopsy had gone smoothly, but the area was still tender.
Grace used to be a standout in the choir, and one of her favorite hymns had always been It Is Well With My Soul, but since the radiation damaged her vocal cords, she had been unable to sing.
A few months passed, and the temsirolimus wasnt working.
Lorch tried another drug; it didnt work either.
One of the more grotesque insights yielded by cancer genetics is that many of the genes implicated in the disease are the same genes that guide early human development.
All of us begin as a relatively formless embryo, and from there the cells follow an elaborate program.
They grow rapidly.
They migrate and specialize, taking on roles like nerve or skin or the production of hormones in the thyroid.
Cells that are no longer needed die willingly.
All of this activity is ordained in our DNA and orchestrated by an elaborate system of cellular communication in which genes activate and deactivate one another as needed.
It is hard to imagine, but this cooperative dance is what allows an unshaped mass of cells to become something as perfect and graceful as a babys tiny hand, with each fingernail sculpted just so.
In Graces body, cancer hijacked this system and turned it to its own ends.
For example, the gene that mutated in Graces original cancer, TSC2, is part of whats called the mTOR pathway, which helps direct cellular growth.
Normally the TSC2 gene acts as a brake, sending cease-and-desist orders to the mTOR gene when its time for the cellular engines to ease.
The mutation trashed the brakes, locking the cells in overdrive.
Everolimus, however, acts on the mTOR gene directly, limiting its ability to emit growth signals  an emergency brake.
When Grace took it, her cancer faltered.
Early in 2013, Graces team received the sequence of her resistant tumor, and its trick was revealed: A single letter of DNA had changed in the mTOR gene.
This solitary substitution meant that a lone amino acid, part of a long chain that makes up the mTOR protein, was different.
Because of this, the mTOR protein assumed a slightly deformed shape, and this meant that the everolimus could no longer grab hold and do its work.
The cancer roared to life.
It sounds like truly extraordinary bad luck  a one-in-three-billion shot  but the power of evolution means that its entirely predictable: Inside the tumor, cancer rolls a pair of dice, over and over, until they come up snake eyes.
Photo

Often cancer appears to reverse the natural course of things, by taking mature cells, disciplined in form and function, and returning them to a more fevered, inchoate state.
Anaplastic cancers like Graces are those in which the cells have lost their characteristic form.
Seen on a pathology slide, normal thyroid follicular cells have a smooth, rounded look, like uncracked eggs, and they are arranged in neat circles.
With anaplastic thyroid cancer, the cells swell up into a mess of irregular shapes, as if theyd all been melted together.
They are reproducing so often that its not unusual for a pathology slide to show a cell in the middle of doubling, caught in the act.
Cancer is a monster, but in its fierce evolutionary tendencies, it is grasping, as with anything else in nature, for a way to be in the world.
Life on earth has invaded the air, the deep sea, the bedrock.
Over eons, it has suffered meteor storms, volcanic dystopias, shifting continents and deprivations beyond counting, and yet it always comes back stronger.
With cancer, biologys fierce insistence  its resilience, its ceaseless creativity, its sheer generative capacity  is the enemy.
With cancer, the opponent is life.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As Lorch considered other ways to help Grace, he knew that one option might come from the pharmaceutical company Millennium, in Cambridge, Mass., which was working on a next-generation mTOR inhibitor, a drug that, like everolimus, targets the mTOR gene.
By the summer of 2013, Wagles colleagues at the Broad Institute of M.I.T.
and Harvard, where he has a position, had made some progress.
After creating a proxy cancer, a collection of cells with the specific mutation found in Graces resistant tumor, they applied a compound that mimicked the activity of the drug by Millennium, which is now called Takeda Oncology.
The drug should work, they concluded.
The company told Lorch that it would support a clinical trial as soon as the drug was ready.
Grace had agreed to the biopsy to help future patients, and now she had a chance to become one of them.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
For Lorch, the challenge was to keep Grace alive long enough to join the trial.
He knew her tumor was always in motion.
Under the long press of everolimus, it had mutated, allowing it to resurge.
The tumor then shook off two other drugs, including temsirolimus.
Lorch decided to go with a traditional chemotherapy combination: carboplatin plus paclitaxel.
In July 2013, he started Grace on the new therapy.
As fall arrived, hair was slipping from her scalp, but the cancer had gone quiet, pharmaceutically stunned.
For all the excitement surrounding precision medicine, it is humbling to see how distant a goal it remains, even in cancer.
There was nothing especially precise about the chemotherapy Lorch prescribed for Grace, and this, for most patients, is the reality today.
Despite all of oncologys recent successes, our understanding of the human cells vast genetic machinery  cancers playground  remains modest.
The original Illumina sequence of Sharons tumor revealed a total of 17,136 mutations.
Pick any one and inquire about its significance, and the answer will most likely be: Who knows?
To make the shift to precision oncology, cancer researchers have invented a novel means to evaluate new treatments.
Called a basket trial, it is a trial for which patients are recruited by the tumors genetic signature, not its point of origin in the body; a drug is thus tested against a basket of many cancer types.
Last August, an international team led by researchers at Sloan Kettering published some of the first results of such a trial, for cancers with a mutation in a gene called BRAF.
The doctors saw a good response in lung cancer and two rare cancers, showing the power of selecting drugs based on tumor genetics.
For other cancer types in the trial, though, the drug was less effective, or there were too few patients to draw conclusions, showing how much more remains to be learned.
Sometimes targeting a mutation fails because it is only one of many driving the tumor, or because the mutation occurred at random in the genetic chaos, a passenger, while other mutations do the driving.
Future basket trials could help doctors tease out the distinctions.
Many such trials are now underway, including a large federally supported effort called NCI-Match.
Sharon and Graces cases even helped inspire an everolimus basket trial.
Carole Arenson, an 80-year-old Illinois woman, has metastatic sarcoma with a mutation in TSC2, the same troublesome gene implicated in Graces disease.
Carole joined the everolimus basket trial and, in November, she learned that the tumors were shrinking.
In this, the scientific investigations can be seen coming full circle, from a pair of Lazarus miracles to practical medicine that, to Carole, has felt like salvation.
When I met Lorch in his office last year, he was optimistic.
Grace had just started on the Takeda Oncology drug, and the initial signs pointed to considerable shrinkage.
Back in the fall of 2010, when she first received her diagnosis, her life expectancy could be measured in months.
We are trying to turn [cancer] into a chronic disease, Lorch said.
Right now, to have someone still alive five years after they were diagnosed and enjoying her grandkids is the best that we can do.
As we spoke, though, on his computer screen was a scan with spots: masses of Graces tumor cells, within which, concealed from him, the cancer was surely plotting its next escape.
Lorch sat a bit sideways on his chair, leaning back with his hand a loose fist on his forehead, as if he were bracing for impact.
When her time comes, it is going to be hard to speak with her husband and all the people whove come in with her over the years.
He paused.
Am I dreading this?
Does it motivate me to try harder to keep her around?
Yes, absolutely.
President Obamas $202 million Precision Medicine Initiative, announced during his 2015 State of the Union address, seeks to study one million American volunteers to learn how genetic and other data might be used to tailor treatments.
The initiative aims for progress in many ailments, including heart disease, diabetes, obesity and depression, but initially the focus is cancer.
In January, in his final State of the Union address, Obama announced that he was putting Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. in charge of a moonshot to cure cancer.
Beau Biden, the vice presidents son, died in May 2015, at age 46, of brain cancer.
The presidents mother died of uterine and ovarian cancer.
For the loved ones weve all lost, Obama said before the joint session of Congress, for the families that we can still save, lets make America the country that cures cancer once and for all.
Two days after the presidents moonshot speech, I was on the eighth floor of the Charles A. Dana Building in Boston to visit Wagle at Dana-Farber.
Last October, Wagle unveiled the Metastatic Breast Cancer Project, inspired partly by his involvement in Graces case and partly by frustration over the way cancer research works today.
Its quite difficult to track down patients with intriguing case histories, scattered as they are across the country and protected by blankets of privacy.
So instead of going through doctors or hospitals, the project makes its appeal to patients directly.
Through the projects website, they can enter their medical histories and grant Wagles team access to their records, their DNA and tumor samples.
Participants have started recruiting others to the project, solving a central challenge facing the scientific study of any rare phenomenon.
In six months, more than 1,800 patients with metastatic breast cancer have joined, including hundreds of exceptional responders.
In return, the project involves them in its decision-making and promises to share its data with any scientist who asks.
A lot of patients feel like the research-industrial complex is about making discoveries and competing for grants, and in many ways they are right, Wagle said.
I get it.
The project cuts against the grain of a medical system that was not designed to learn from patients.
Every day in this country, doctors treat people for all kinds of disorders, and some do surprisingly well, or surprisingly poorly  and virtually all of this information is lost to science.
Eric Lander, the founding director of the Broad Institute and co-chairman of the Presidents Council of Advisors on Science and Technology, has begun laying the groundwork for a national project he calls Count Me In, which would allow anyone to make their medical records, and DNA, available to researchers.
In my opinion, Lander said, its a crime to let valuable information go to waste when a patient wants to share it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Wagles project is Count Me Ins first undertaking.
Next, Count Me In is beginning a similar effort on angiosarcoma, an understudied cancer, and two more efforts are planned this year.
Precision oncology has been driven by advances in two areas: automation, responsible for the plummeting cost of genetic sequencing, and information technology, which allows the data to be recorded and interpreted.
Projects like Count Me In are built on the premise that a third disruptive technology can also be brought to bear: social media.
Photo

The campaign by American political leaders to cure cancer goes back decades, including Nixons war on cancer.
But these latest federal calls for action  which bring to mind images of the best and brightest, backed by brute force  risk mistaking the nature of the opponent and misunderstanding the potential of the weapons now available.
Ask almost any specialist about a cure for cancer, and she will cringe, because there is no one cancer to be cured.
We face an enemy that is resourceful, changeable and merciless, but we have a population that wants to help.
Instead of a war (or a moonshot), what is required probably looks more like a counterinsurgency operation.
The people are tired of being victimized, unable to have a say in their own fates.
Almost any one of them would tell you: If you are going to die, its better to die with a purpose.
The patients enlisted so far, however, have joined almost by accident.
Sharon, who continues to live in Florida without any sign of cancer, explained how thoroughly her good fortune has depended on her circumstances.
Her son-in-law, an oncologist, pointed her to Sloan Kettering, and she could afford to fly up every four weeks to participate in the trial.
I think about the people who would have trouble with funds, and it breaks my heart, she said.
If Grace had not happened to live near Boston, the odds that she could have laid eyes on any of her grandchildren  or contributed to science  are long indeed.
Carole Arenson, who has continued to do well on everolimus, found a place in the basket trial only because she had Foundation Medicine, a company in Cambridge, Mass., sequence her tumor, revealing the crucial mutation.
Im as happy to see you, Carole recalled telling a doctor involved with the trial, as you are to see me.
This haphazard approach has led to a chicken-and-egg problem that is among the most obvious obstacles to progress in precision oncology.
In order to run basket trials, researchers must find patients with the right mutations.
But this has proved difficult, because most patients arent having sequences done: Insurance generally doesnt cover it.
The reason?
Because, insurance companies point out, there is not yet enough evidence that it will be clinically useful.
The way to gather this evidence?
Basket trials.
Jos Baselga, the physician in chief and chief medical officer at Sloan Kettering, told me that his hospital has a number of quite promising basket trials running but is struggling to find enough patients.
One analysis published last year found that patients in genetically targeted trials are seeing better outcomes than those in traditional trials.
Yet if patients who would qualify arent fortunate enough to be at cancer centers like Sloan Kettering or Dana-Farber that run sequencing programs supported by philanthropic money, they either need to pay for it themselves or they are out of luck  and so is cancer research.
Baselga, in conversations with Biden, has argued for a change in policy: If Medicare covered sequencing, private insurance would follow, opening up precision medicine to many more people.
Its a problem of scale.
Sloan Kettering, Dana-Farber and several other top cancer hospitals are pooling their findings so that oncologists can search through cases, about 20,000 so far, to see what mutations were found, what drugs were tried and how patients responded.
The National Cancer Institutes Exceptional Responders Initiative has accumulated about 50 confirmed cases from around the country.
Fifty exceptional responders is a large number, but it is also small.
The same could be said of 20,000 cancer cases, annotated with genetic and clinical information: large, unprecedented and also not nearly enough.
For thousands of years, deep thinkers about military strategy have understood that wars are not won in the way the public imagines.
Gen. Robert H. Barrow, who served four years as commandant of the United States Marine Corps, is credited with saying that amateurs talk about tactics, but professionals study logistics.
Science has revealed the nature of cancer, and also created new means to gather intelligence on the foe.
Solitary engagements can reveal new weaknesses to exploit.
Does anyone truly imagine prevailing without bringing the fight everywhere  without matching cancer in its inventiveness, its nimbleness, its sheer relentlessness?
On a bitter morning in January, I visited Grace at home.
When I stepped into the entryway, she stood at the top of some steps, wearing a purple top, black leggings and a pair of comfy black slippers.
From a television, I made out a voice that could be only Elmo.
Grace smiled.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

She took a seat on a sofa with Jaelynn, her 2-year-old granddaughter, who sat in an off-white cable-knit sweater watching the TV and occasionally pushing her fine black hair from her face.
On the wall hung a photograph of Faial, the Portuguese island where Graces father, who went by Mestre Simao, had been a ferry captain.
Simao was beloved for braving severe storms to fetch people in distress from a nearby island and deliver them to the Faial hospital.
He would tie himself to the wheel.
Sometimes he returned with a cockpit window blown out.
Grace showed me a video on her phone from 2013, when a new ferry arrived at the island: The Mestre Simao, named for her father.
With its lime green and dark blue bow, the boat made its way in from the ocean, trailed by a tug.
Jaelynn stood next to Grace, enraptured as the scene unfolded, a hand resting on her grandmothers leg.
Sitting there, I found myself wondering if something happened during one of Simaos storm runs.
I imagined a gravely ill man, tied down for safety, the sea enraged.
The man would have been praying, and he would have known that his only earthly hope was Simao, up in the cockpit, refusing to panic as the marine glass shattered in his face.
Was there a moment when this was somehow noted  when some beneficence was granted to Simaos youngest, little Grace, who always took his lunch to the docks?
The trailing tug began pumping ocean water, two celebratory arches in the air.
Water!
Jaelynn shouted.
I know, I know, Grace said.
Look, its so pretty.
The boats circled.
You want to go someday on a ship?
Grace asked.
Jaelynns eyes kept to the screen.
It was morning in the Azores, and the light hit low.
Yeah, she said.
A few months later, Grace began coughing up blood.
Joe rushed her to the emergency room: A tumor in her lung was growing again.
The Takeda Oncology drug had been good for six months.
Grace went through a round of radiation on the lung and then started nivolumab, a therapy that helps the immune system attack tumors.
Earlier this month, though, she went to the hospital with dizziness and a severe headache.
Scans showed metastasis to the brain.
Lying flat in a bed on the 12th floor of Brigham and Womens Hospital, Grace assured Lorch that her minister was praying for him too, as he pondered his options: for her but also for what science might still learn from her remarkable case.
The nivolumab was out, but Lorch did notice that the drug seemed to have been working around her lung  several tumors shrank  which is significant because doctors dont know who will respond to the drug.
He and his colleagues plan to take what theyve learned about the genetics of Graces cancer and compare it with evidence, from her blood, of the drugs activity.
This might help the next patient.
Grace may have yet more to give.
Some argue that circumcision can reduce the chance of contracting a sexually transmitted infection later in life.
A systematic review of 26 studies found that circumcised men are at a lower risk of syphilis or chancroid.
There might be some protection against herpes, but its less significant.
The strongest case for circumcision can be made as a benefit against the transmission of H.I.V.
In Africa, where H.I.V.
is much more prevalent, randomized controlled trials of circumcision have been performed.
The results were quite convincing.
Absolute rate reductions of 1-2 percent over one to two years were seen.
Some estimate that for 10 to 20 males circumcised, one fewer man might contract H.I.V.
over a lifetime.
One study likened circumcision to a vaccine of high efficacy.
Again, though, these results apply to countries with a much higher prevalence of H.I.V.
than we see in the United States.
The protection afforded, therefore, is much less significant here.
Opponents of circumcision point to its potential downsides.
Surgical complications, while rare, are greater than zero.
Pain is a concern as well; evidence exists both to support and rebut the notion that infants recover quickly.
More prominent concerns focus on sexual function and satisfaction.
Opponents argue that the foreskin, like much of the penis, contains many nerve endings.
It also protects the head of the penis; without it, the penis might become less sensitive over time.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But does this actually happen?
A recent study in the Journal of Urology, discussed in The New York Times, measured penile sensitivity in circumcised and uncircumcised men and found no real difference.
It wasnt the first, or the best, study to look at this.
A randomized controlled trial of more than 2,700 men in Kenya found that after circumcision they experienced increased sensitivity, and that they had an easier time reaching orgasm.
A systematic review and meta-analysis found that circumcision was unrelated to premature ejaculation, erectile dysfunction or difficulty achieving orgasm.
Over all, the evidence arguing for and against circumcision fails to make a compelling case in either direction.
The benefits, while arguably real, are small; likewise the harms.
In such cases, we usually leave the decision to the patient.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

There is, of course, an ethical problem here, since the choice is almost always made by parents, not by the boys themselves.
Circumcision is irreversible, and many argue, quite stridently, that this is genital mutilation inflicted on children for no reason.
All cards on the table: Im Jewish, and Im circumcised, as are both my sons.
The procedure has a spiritual weight in my community.
When confronted by people who use terms like mutilation, I generally recoil.
Circumcising my boys was a personal decision for my wife and me, and I understand the various arguments for and against.
People angry about this choice seem to imagine that we havent thoroughly considered it.
I also live with the knowledge that its possible that my children might have chosen differently.
But we also have to recognize that parents make many, many decisions for their children with a greater and more meaningful impact on them than circumcision.
Thats what parents do.
Assuming that this is the most consequential one we might have made about our boys lives, and focusing so much attention on it  when evidence makes the value of either choice unclear  seems out of proportion.
That doesnt mean opponents dont have a point.
Circumcision is much rarer in most other industrialized countries.
Health organizations in those countries dont advocate the procedure as we do in the United States.
An argument can also be made for waiting until boys are old enough to make a decision for themselves.
A number of factors make that difficult, though.
Its a more complicated procedure then, with greater risks and higher costs.
Given that religion and culture are tied up in this, its clear that this issue wont be decided soon.
Its also clear that evidence wont make anyones choice easier.
In the end, the decision as to whether parents opt to have their babies circumcised will remain a personal one.
Mothers didnt adopt this behavior out of nowhere.
In 2000, the American Academy of Pediatrics released guidelines on reducing a childs risk for developing allergies.
They recommended that mothers eliminate peanuts and tree nuts (e.g., almonds, walnuts, etc.)
and consider eliminating eggs, cows milk, fish, and perhaps other foods from their diets while nursing.
Further, they recommended that children at high risk for allergies be given no solid foods until six months of age, no dairy products until 1 year old, no eggs until age 2, and no peanuts, nuts or fish until age 3.
A debate has been raging in the health care system for decades on this topic.
I was part of a systematic review that examined the relationship between early solid food introduction and allergic disease in children.
We found no good evidence to support the idea that being exposed to solid foods earlier led to persistent food allergies.
To its credit, the A.A.P.
changed its recommendations based on new research.
In 2008, updated guidelines reported that maternal restrictions in pregnancy or breast-feeding no longer seemed like advice that should be widely recommended.
It also acknowledged that there didnt seem much reason to delay the introduction of allergy foods like peanuts after six months, around the age babies move from milk or formula to a wider range of food.
Unfortunately, this did little to change peoples behavior.
Many had already internalized the advice.
It seemed logical to them that avoiding foods would give children less of a chance to develop allergies.
If it was still a good idea not to expose children until they were six months old, why not keep going?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A study published in The New England Journal of Medicine last year turned all of this on its head.
Researchers enrolled 640 infants at high risk for allergies, between 4 and 11 months of age, in a trial and randomized them to one of two groups.
One of them was to avoid peanut protein; the other was to eat at least six grams of peanut protein a week given in three or more meals.
All participants were followed until they were 5 years old.
What was most surprising in this work was that 15 percent of the infants already had evidence of peanut sensitivity by allergy testing.
They were enrolled in the trial despite this, and half of them were given peanut extract every week.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The results were remarkable.
At the end of the study, about 3 percent of those exposed to peanuts had developed a peanut allergy, compared with more than 17 percent among those who avoided peanuts.
More surprising, if you looked just at the children who already had evidence of peanut sensitivity when they were babies, fewer than 11 percent of those regularly exposed to peanuts developed an allergy.
But more than 35 percent of those who avoided peanuts developed an allergy.
Children who had proven sensitivity to peanuts, but consumed them in their diet regularly, were less likely to develop a peanut allergy than children without sensitivity who avoided them.
Recently, follow-up results were published.
After the trial ended, researchers asked all the participants who had been regularly consuming peanuts to avoid them for the next 12 months.
At the end of that period, when the children were 6, there was no significant increase in new peanut allergies in that group.
Avoidance at this point made no difference.
The critical need for exposure appears to be somewhere from infancy until age 5.
These results were so convincing that, once again, experts are changing their recommendations.
In September 2015, the A.A.P.
along with others  argued that health care providers should recommend introducing peanut-containing products into the diets of high-risk infants early on in life.
These changes dovetail nicely within what has become known as the hygiene hypothesis, the gist of which is that as weve made our environment more and more sterile, our immune systems develop differently than they used to.
Without exposure to outside things to fight, our defenses turn inward and toward more benign substances, leading to increased levels of eczema, asthma and allergies.
Of course, many people used to die from infections that no longer threaten us because of advances, so no one should take this as a call for living in filth.
Nor should anyone take these recent findings as advice to feed babies and small children peanuts and other foods without concern.
All changes to an infants diet, especially in children with allergies, should be done in consultation with a health care professional.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As with many things in health care, however, we went too far with our response to peanut and other food allergies.
Avoidance is sometimes needed for those with severe reactions.
When we apply those same rules to everyone else, however, things can backfire.
That schedule is on the website of Ray Fair, a professor in the economics department at Yale, who was inspired to find the patterns of slowdowns when his own running performance began to decline.
The result is a table.
You can put in your best time ever for an event, say a 10-kilometer race, and how old you were when you ran it.
The table then shows how fast you could have run it when you were younger and how fast you should be able to run it now and as you grow even older.
Some say the site changed their life, Fair said.
They know they will slow down as they grow older, but as long as they slow down as much as the site says they will, they are fine.
As for Fair, hes not as happy.
I am not on my line, he said.
I am worse than I should be but I am trying to get back.
But even being on the line means not being what you were before, and that can be a hard adjustment for many former elite runners.
I still run every day, Nippert said, but its a tough transition to just being just an everyday runner.
Sometimes, as with Mary Decker Slaney and Doriane Coleman, elite middle distance runners, the end of a career starts insidiously with an injury from which their aging bodies just cannot recover.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Slaney, who is 57, ruptured her posterior tibial tendon in 1997.
She had surgery to have it reconstructed and then tried to train, telling herself she could get back to the point where she had been.
For a long time, I thought there was still a way to get better, Slaney said.
But eventually you get to a point where you realize that is not happening.
I couldnt run, I could only jog and to me that was disheartening.
But after about 10 years, I decided: O.K.
I will jog because I cant do anything else.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

She was saved, she said, when she discovered a sort of combination of elliptical cross-trainer and bicycle that she can use on the roads outside her home in Eugene, Ore.
It is the closest thing to running without actually running, she said.
I got on one for the first time and within 10 minutes I knew I had to have one.
I thought, Oh my God, I havent felt that way in a long time.
Slaney still dreams of running, and she often dreams she is back on the starting line.
Her dreams even include training again.
There is nothing to replicate the feeling of running, she said.
Her friend Coleman, a law professor at Duke University, understands all too well.
For her, the career-ending injury was a ruptured Achilles tendon.
For many years I didnt have a successful strategy to transition from being a runner where every run is a training run, every run has a purpose and you are constantly aware of time passing and distance passing, she said.
Thats so ingrained.
She kept trying to train, she said, but it was making me insane.
Then she reasoned with herself.
I am 55 years old, for Gods sake, she said she realized.
I dont need to go on training runs anymore.
But old habits are hard to break.
Sometimes, Coleman says, when she is on a run, feeling good, my brain goes into its old track and I think, I can still do it.
On those days, she says, I pick up the pace a little bit; I kind of forget my age.
But she also has a strategy that has changed her life.
She leaves her watch behind.
Before she sets out on a run, Coleman looks at the clock.
When she gets back, she glances at it again.
Then she tells herself, Ballpark.
The Minnesota Coronary Experiment was a well-designed study that was conducted in one nursing home and six state mental hospitals from 1968 to 1973.
More than 9,400 men and women, ages 20 to 97, participated.
Data on serum cholesterol were available on more than 2,300 participants who were on the study diets for more than a year.
At baseline, participants were getting about 18.5 percent of their calories from saturated fat, and about 3.8 percent from unsaturated fats.
The intervention diet was considered a more heart healthy one.
It encouraged a reduction in the amount of calories from saturated fats (like animal fats and butter) and more from unsaturated fats, particularly linoleic acids (like corn oil).
The intervention diet lowered the percent of calories from saturated fats to 9.2 percent, and raised the percent from unsaturated fats to 13.2 percent.
The average follow-up for these participants was just under three years.
In that time, the total serum cholesterol dropped significantly more in those on the intervention diet (-31.2 mg/dL) than in those on the control diet (-5 mg/dL).
There was, however, no decreased risk of death.
If anything, there seemed to be an increased mortality rate in those on the heart healthy diet, particularly among those 65 years and older.
More concerning, those who had the greater reduction in serum cholesterol had a higher rate of death.
A 30mg/dL decrease in serum cholesterol was associated with a 22 percent increase in the risk of death from any cause, even after adjusting for baseline cholesterol, age, sex, adherence to the diet, body mass and blood pressure.
Of course, this is only one study.
It involved only institutionalized patients.
Only about a quarter of the participants followed the diet for more than a year.
The diets dont necessarily look like what people really ate, then or now.
But this is still a large, randomized controlled trial, and its hard to imagine we wouldnt at least discuss it widely.
Moreover, the researchers conducted a meta-analysis of all studies that looked at this question.
Analyzed together, they still found that more people died on the linoleic-acid-rich diets, although the results were not statistically significant.
Even in a sensitivity analysis, which included more studies, no mortality benefit could be found with a diet lower in saturated fats.
Its important to note that other meta-analyses both support and dispute this.
A 2010 study argued that substituting unsaturated fats for saturated fats would reduce the rates of coronary heart disease.
So did a 2015 Cochrane review.
A 2014 study in Annals of Internal Medicine, though, showed the opposite.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Peoples reactions to this news have been much as youd expect.
Supporters of a diet low in saturated fat have called the new study an interesting historical footnote that has no relevance to current dietary recommendations.
Others have said that if this research had been published when the study was over, it might have changed the trajectory of diet-heart research and recommendations.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This isnt the first time that data from long ago have run against current recommendations.
In 2013, an analysis was published of recovered data from the Sydney Diet Heart Study, a randomized controlled trial of a similar nature performed in men with a recent heart attack or angina.
Although the study was done from 1966 to 1973, results werent available publicly until three years ago.
It, too, found that a diet higher in unsaturated fats led to a higher rate of death from heart disease.
Why wasnt this research published decades ago?
Its possible that modern computer technology allows us to do analyses that couldnt be performed then.
Its possible that researchers tried, but were unable to get the results published.
But its also possible that these results were marginalized because they didnt fit with what was considered to be truth at the time.
The two principal investigators on the Minnesota study were Ivan Frantz and Ancel Keys, the latter of whom may be the most influential scientist in promoting saturated fat as the enemy of heart health.
(Mr. Keys died in 2004.)
Im not suggesting anything sinister.
Im sure that both these scientists absolutely believed that their prior epidemiologic work established that diets lower in saturated fat led to lower cholesterol levels and better health.
Research consistently confirmed the former.
When that lower cholesterol didnt translate into actual outcomes like lower mortality, though, they must have been baffled.
Like others today, they may have been able to rationalize the result away and decide that it has no relevance.
Unfortunately, other, similar controlled trials seem to support the notion that the case against saturated fat isnt as robust as many think.
We all must be concerned about publication bias, which occurs when results of published studies are systematically different from results of unpublished studies.
Research has shown that studies with statistically significant results are more likely to be published than those without.
Studies with a low-priority topic or finding may be less likely to be published.
One of the reasons that epidemiologic evidence often leads us to conclusions that cant be supported is likely publication bias.
Studies that find significant associations between foods (like meat) and scary findings (like cancer) are more likely to be published than those that dont find those associations.
When controlled trials are finally done, though, the scary results often cant be replicated.
But the most common reason research isnt published is because researchers dont write it up and submit it.
That could be because they think it wont be accepted.
It could also be because they dont believe the results.
In the charged environment of nutrition research, when peoples careers are built on certain hypotheses, its hard not to imagine our biases creeping into play.
Unfortunately, the health of Americans and others is at stake.
Should we be eating more polyunsaturated fats?
Should we be avoiding saturated fats?
The honest answer is: I dont know.
Given my review of the evidence, I stand by my previous recommendations, which essentially focus more on foods and less on nutrients.
I think the state of nutrition research in general is shockingly flawed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its hard enough to debate the data we can see.
Knowing theres probably data out there that people havent shared makes everything much, much harder.
The academic institutions involved are the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, the University of Pennsylvania, the University of Texas M.D.
Anderson Cancer Center, Stanford, and the University of California campuses in San Francisco and Los Angeles.
After decades of frustration, researchers have finally figured out how to direct the bodys immune system to recognize and attack tumors, resulting in some striking recoveries for patients on the brink of death.
But this approach has worked for only a minority of patients, so there is still much room for improvement.
Dozens of companies are pursuing the field, and philanthropists are supporting research.
Johns Hopkins University recently announced it would open a center for immunotherapy research using $50 million gifts from Michael R. Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York, and Sidney Kimmel, founder of the Jones Apparel Group.
Immunotherapy is also a major thrust of Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.s cancer moonshot initiative.
Video

Mr. Parker said that his institute, which will involve about 300 researchers in 40 laboratories on the six campuses, will try to improve on existing approaches in ways not being pursued by companies.
The institute will have a somewhat unusual arrangement with the research centers.
While each academic center will own the intellectual property from its work, the Parker Institute will manage the patents and their licensing to companies.
Some of the proceeds will go toward future research by the Parker Institute and be shared by all the academic centers, giving them an incentive to cooperate rather than compete.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Parker Institute will also work with companies, including a study with Merck on why some cancers resist treatment by the companys drug Keytruda.
Jeffrey Bluestone, a professor and immune system expert at the University of California, San Francisco, will also serve as chief executive of the Parker Institute, which will be based in San Francisco.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Researchers said the money from the Parker Institute would allow them to pursue longer term projects and more radical ideas than they could using government grants.
If you have a great idea, you should be able to try it tomorrow, said Lewis L. Lanier, who will lead the project at U.C.S.F.
Its pretty stale if you have to wait nine months to get a government grant.
Mr. Parker, whose wealth is estimated at $2.4 billion by Forbes, announced last year that he had put $600 million into a foundation to support life sciences research, public health and civic engagement.
The immunotherapy effort is the largest allotment of that money by far.
This is my primary philanthropic project probably for the rest of my life, he said.
Mr. Parker, 36, said he initially became interested in the immune system because he has asthma and food allergies.
But his interest in tamping down the immune system to stifle allergies also drew his attention to efforts to rev it up to fight cancer.
On Wednesday evening, Mr. Parker will host a big party at his house in Los Angeles to celebrate the start of the immunotherapy project.
Guests will include the actors Tom Hanks and Sean Penn, the directors Peter Jackson and Ron Howard, the venture capitalist John Doerr, Twitters chief executive, Jack Dorsey, and Gov.
Jerry Brown of California, according to the invitation.
Lady Gaga and John Legend are scheduled to perform.
Presumably, the cancer researchers will also be there.
Photo

Two years ago, Kristi Wood was tired and achy and could not think clearly, and she had no idea why.
I was in a fog and feeling awful, said Ms. Wood, 49, who lives in Seattle and is an owner of a hiking supply company.
Ms. Wood had her blood tested by a consumer service called InsideTracker, which analyzes 30 hormones and biomarkers, such as vitamin levels, cholesterol and inflammation.
After the service told Ms. Wood she had excessive levels of vitamin D, she cut back on a supplement she had been using and said she almost immediately felt better.
Now she has her blood drawn and tested by InsideTracker every four months to check everything from her blood sugar to her B12 levels which, she said, allows me to be proactive about her health.
The services typically send their customers to a nearby clinic where they can have a vial of their blood drawn and sent for analyses.
But InsideTracker also offers customers the option to have nurses show up at their home and draw blood.
(Such services are different from another blood testing company that has been much in the news, Theranos, which aims to provide laboratory test results from a single finger prick.)
Home testing services like InsideTracker say they are empowering consumers, allowing them to spot metabolic red flags before they progress to disease.
But critics say the services often lack proper medical oversight and convince healthy people that theyre sick, leading to unnecessary testing and treatment.
Those concerns have not stopped people from seeking home testing.
The market for direct-to-consumer laboratory tests was valued at $131 million last year, up from $15 million in 2010,according to Kalorama Information, a pharmaceutical-industry research firm.
In December, the New York State attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, accused two companies, DirectLabs and LabCorp, of violating a state law that requires laboratory tests to be carried out at the request of licensed medical practitioners.
DirectLabs had sold hundreds of health tests to consumers, ranging from checks for heavy metals and vitamins to screening for parasites and disease.
But Mr. Schneiderman said the person fulfilling the medical practitioner role was actually a chiropractor who had never met, spoken to or followed up with any patients.
DirectLabs did not respond to a request for comment.
DirectLabs and LabCorp agreed to pay fines, and DirectLabs ceased operating in New York.
In a statement, Mr. Schneiderman said that allowing consumers to be tested for serious medical conditions without consulting a physician put their health in jeopardy.
Advocates of home testing, however, say such cases do not reflect industry practices.
InsideTracker and another leading company, WellnessFX, said they worked with doctors who reviewed all test results.
Paul Jacobson, the chief executive of WellnessFX, based in San Francisco, said the company complied with all regulations and offered customers the option of consulting with a doctor, nutritionist or registered dietitian to discuss their results.
WellnessFX sells packages ranging from $78 to $988, offering analyses of 25 to 88 blood biomarkers, including vitamins, lipids, cardiovascular markers and thyroid and reproductive hormones.
Depending on the results, the company also suggests supplements, foods and exercise.
You need to offer solutions to people; otherwise, youre just giving them meaningless information, Mr. Jacobson said.
Tara Boening, the dietitian for the Houston Rockets of the National Basketball Association, said the team started using InsideTracker this season.
The players look at their reports (deficiencies are highlighted in red), which include suggested corrective actions such as eating more red meat and leafy greens if they are low in iron.
The players have been really receptive to the information, Ms. Boening said.
But some doctors say that there is no evidence that such monitoring makes a meaningful improvement in health.
Dr. Pieter Cohen, an assistant professor at Harvard Medical School and an internist at Cambridge Health Alliance, cautioned that the levels of vitamin D and other biomarkers that were optimal for one person might be very different from what is optimal for another person.
He said InsideTrackers lab reports, for example, classified vitamin D levels below 30 nanograms per milliliter as low  even though a level above 20 is perfectly normal and adequate for most people.
Dr. Cohen said his major concern with direct-to-consumer blood tests was that they screened for so many biomarkers and created seemingly arbitrary ranges for what is considered normal.
Then they give people advice that they already know they should be following.
The best-case scenario here is you lose your money and then youre reminded to get more sleep and to eat more fruits, vegetables and fish, he said.
The worst-case scenario is that you end up getting alarmed by supposedly abnormal results that are actually completely normal for you.
InsideTracker was founded by Gil Blander, a biochemist who did postgraduate research on aging at M.I.T.
He said the idea behind InsideTracker was analogous to routine maintenance for cars.
We decided, lets try to do that for humans, Dr. Blander said.
We can help you find a small issue today that might be a big problem in the future.
Some, like Joseph Roberts, say the services are life-changing.
Four years ago, Mr. Roberts, a former Army Ranger and a retired master sergeant, was plagued by fatigue, depression and weight gain despite frequent exercise.
Mr. Roberts, then 39, said doctors told him his symptoms were a normal part of aging.
Eventually, he decided to have his blood tested with InsideTracker, and the results surprised him, he said.
He was told he had low testosterone and vitamin D, as well as excessive levels of vitamin B12.
Mr. Roberts cut back on daily energy drinks, which are loaded with B12.
He also saw a doctor to discuss his testosterone levels.
He learned his low levels were linked to a brain injury he had sustained as a result of a roadside bomb explosion in Iraq in 2003.
He began testosterone-replacement therapy and now regularly checks in with a doctor.
He also has his blood tested with InsideTracker every four months.
Ive had a huge improvement in my quality of life, he said.
Its money well spent.
For more fitness, food and wellness news, follow us on Facebook and Twitter, or sign up for our newsletter.
Photo

Hard Cases Dr. Abigail Zuger on the everyday ethical issues doctors face.
The minute I got on that bus, I knew I was in trouble.
The driver sat at the stop just long enough to miss the green light.
Then he inched along till he missed the next light and the one after that.
He stopped at every stop even though not a soul was waiting.
The 20-minute trip to work stretched to a half-hour, then longer.
I was late, late, late.
But this was a driver with a mission, clearly way ahead of schedule and trying to get back on track.
He was very early; now I was very late.
We were two people with competing, mutually exclusive agendas, and the one in the drivers seat was bound to win.
A half-hour later, still sweating from racing the last five blocks on foot, with patients piling up in the waiting room, I became the one in the drivers seat, with the mission and overriding agenda.
Woe betide those with competing plans.
Just like that driver, I work under two mandates.
One is professional: getting my passengers from point A to point B without breaking the law or killing anyone.
The other one is less exalted but generally far more visible: I run according to a schedule that I ignore at my peril.
Shes running late, they mutter out in the waiting room.
And indeed, she runs late for exactly the same reasons your bus runs late: too many slow-moving passengers lined up to board.
Not enough buses or drivers.
A person in a wheelchair requiring extra attention.
Horrible traffic.
Not only does she often run late, but your poor driver  er, doctor  can run only so late before disaster ensues.
She has obligations not only to you and your fellow passengers twitching in annoyance, but to a host of others, including the nursing and secretarial staffs and the cleaning crew at the end of the line.
She cant pull that bus in at midnight if everyone is supposed to leave by 7 p.m.
So when there is enough work to last till midnight, my agenda shifts, and not so subtly.
Everyone can tell when I begin to speed.
Every visit is pared down to the essentials.
All optional and cosmetic issues are postponed, including most toenail problems and all paperwork.
Chatting is minimized.
As a bus driver once said to me when I was foolish enough to start a conversation about his speed: Lady, just get behind the white line and let me drive.
Medicine is full of competing agendas.
Even at the best of times, the match between the doctors and the patients is less than perfect, sometimes egregiously so.
Some residents are now trained specifically in agenda setting, the art of successfully amalgamating all concerns.
But when its all about speed, an advanced skill set is required.
A patient has been waiting weeks for his appointment, anxiously rehearsing his lines.
Bad luck that he showed up on a day I need him in and out in 19 minutes.
He spends his first 18 unwisely, pretending everything is fine, making small talk, not quite mustering the courage to say whats on his mind.
Then just as he is being ushered gently to the door, he pauses.
Oh, by the way 

Oh, by the way is an infamous schedule buster.
It means something bad: a suspicious lump, a sexually transmitted disease.
Further, it is so common that an entire literature now addresses the oh, by the way phenomenon and how to tame it.
One favored tool is: What else?
That question, asked by the doctor early in the visit, is intended to probe the patients agenda before it trumps the doctors.
As one set of researchers wrote: The what else?
technique uncovers pertinent fears and anxieties up front and prevents an oh, by the way, I have been having some chest pain from surfacing at the end of a visit.
In other words: My agenda is to adopt your agenda, and then rework it so that I can drive on.
Brutal, perhaps, but effective.
Very rarely do things work out for me the way they did for that driver who made me so late to work.
Occasionally I have so much time that I can dawdle along the route.
I remember clearly the last time that happened.
Hows work?
I began.
What are you doing for exercise?
Any hobbies?
Your family, are they well?
I progressed rapidly through seatbelts, bike helmets, family medical history, end-of-life preferences  every single stop my bus typically has no time to make.
Every answer was fine, yes, or I dunno.
Then the patient stood up: Look, I have places to be.
Are we done?
We were two people with competing, mutually exclusive agendas.
But that time the one in the drivers seat lost.
Related:

For more fitness, food and wellness news, follow us on Facebook and Twitter, or sign up for our newsletter.
Photo

The Checkup Dr. Perri Klass on family health.
When girls come in for their physical exams, one of the questions I routinely ask is Do you get your period?
I try to ask before I expect the answer to be yes, so that if a girl doesnt seem to know about the changes of puberty that lie ahead, I can encourage her to talk about them with her mother, and offer to help answer questions.
And I often point out that even those who have not yet embarked on puberty themselves are likely to have classmates who are going through these changes, so, again, its important to let kids know that their questions are welcome, and will be answered accurately.
But like everybody else who deals with girls, Im aware that this means bringing up the topic when girls are pretty young.
Puberty is now coming earlier for many girls, with bodies changing in the third and fourth grade, and there is a complicated discussion about the reasons, from obesity and family stress to chemicals in the environment that may disrupt the normal effects of hormones.
Im not going to try to delineate that discussion here  though its an important one  because I want to concentrate on the effect, rather than the cause, of reaching puberty early.
A large study published in May in the journal Pediatrics looked at a group of 8,327 children born in Hong Kong in April and May of 1997, for whom a great deal of health data has been collected.
The researchers had access to the childrens health records, showing how their doctors had documented their physical maturity, according to what are known as the Tanner stages, for the standardized pediatric index of sexual maturation.
Before children enter puberty, we call it Tanner I; for girls, Tanner II is the beginning of breast development, while for boys, its the enlargement of the scrotum and testes and the reddening and changing of the scrotum skin.
Boys and girls then progress through the intermediate changes to stage V, full physical maturity.
In this study, the researchers looked at the relationship between the age at which children moved from Tanner I to Tanner II  that is, the age at which the physical beginnings of puberty were noticed  and the likelihood of depression in those children when they were 12 to 15 years old, as detected on a screening questionnaire.
What we found was the girls who had earlier breast development had a higher risk of depressive symptoms, or more depressive symptoms, said Dr. C. Mary Schooling, an epidemiologist who is a professor at the City University of New York School of Public Health, and was the senior author on the study.
We didnt see the same thing for boys.
Earlier onset of breast development in girls was associated with a higher risk of depression in early adolescence even after controlling for many other factors, including socioeconomic status, weight or parents marital status.
Other studies, including in the United States, have shown this same pattern, with girls who begin developing earlier than their peers vulnerable to depression in adolescence.
Some studies have found this in boys, though its not as clear.
But there is concern that girls whose development starts earlier than their peers are at risk in a number of ways, and across different cultural backgrounds.
Early puberty is a challenge and a stress, and its associated with more than depression, said Dr. Jane Mendle, a clinical psychologist in the department of human development at Cornell University.
She named anxiety, disordered eating and self-injury as some of the risks for girls.
In her studies of puberty, she has found associations between early development and depression in both genders in New York children.
In boys, the tempo of puberty was significant, as well as the timing; boys who moved more rapidly from one Tanner stage to the next were at higher risk and the increased depression risk seemed to be related to changes in their peer relationships.
Before puberty, Dr. Mendle said, depression occurs at roughly the same rate in both sexes, but by the midpoint of puberty, girls are two and a half times more likely to be depressed than boys.
Some of these children may already be at risk; Dr. Mendle said that early puberty is more common in children who have grown up in circumstances of adversity, in poverty, in the foster care system.
But some of it is heredity and some of it is body type and some of it, probably, is chance.
Researchers have wondered about hormonal associations with depression; Dr.
Schooling pointed out that their study found that depression was associated with early breast development, controlled by estrogens, but not with early pubic hair development, controlled by androgens.
There is no physical factor that we know about that would explain this; estrogen has been eliminated as a driver of depression in earlier research, she said in an email.
We probably need to explore social factors to seek an explanation.
They also plan to follow up with their study population at age 17.
The biological transition of puberty, of course, occurs in a social and cultural context.
One very important effect of developing early, Dr. Mendle said, is that it changes the way that people treat you, from your peers to the adults in your life to strangers.
When kids navigate puberty they start to look different, she said.
It can be hard for them to maintain friendships with kids who havent developed, and we also know that early maturing girls are more likely to be harassed and victimized by other kids in their grade.
Parents should be aware of the difficulties that children may experience if they start puberty earlier than their peers, but lots of children handle early development with resiliency, and even pride.
Children who start puberty early  say, 8 instead of 12  are faced with handling those physical changes while they are more childlike in their knowledge and their cognitive development, and in their emotional understanding of what goes on around them.
Parents should keep in mind that the same protective factors that help children navigate other challenges of growing up are helpful here: All children do better when they have good relationships with their parents, and when they feel connected at school.
And we should be talking about the changes to their bodies before they happen, and make it clear that all of these topics are open for discussion.
Related:

Sign up for the Well Family newsletter to get the latest news on parenting, child health and relationships with advice from our experts to help every family live well.
Video

Personal Health Jane Brody on health and aging.
No doubt in the course of your life, you did something, or failed to do something, that left you feeling guilty or ashamed.
What if that something was in such violation of your moral compass that you felt unable to forgive yourself, undeserving of happiness, perhaps even unfit to live?
That is the fate of an untold number of servicemen and women who served in Iraq, Afghanistan, Vietnam and other wars.
Many participated in, witnessed or were unable to help in the face of atrocities, from failing to aid an injured person to killing a child, by accident or in self-defense.
For some veterans, this leaves emotional wounds that time refuses to heal.
It radically changes them and how they deal with the world.
It has a name: moral injury.
Unlike a better known casualty of war, post-traumatic stress disorder, or PTSD, moral injury is not yet a recognized psychiatric diagnosis, although the harm it inflicts is as bad if not worse.
The problem is highlighted in a new documentary called Almost Sunrise, which will be shown next weekend at the Human Rights Watch Film Festival in New York and on June 23 and 24 at AFI Docs in Washington, D.C.
The film depicts the emotional agony and self-destructive aftermath of moral injury and follows two sufferers along a path that alleviates their psychic distress and offers hope for eventual recovery.
Photo

Therapists both within and outside the Department of Veterans Affairs increasingly recognize moral injury as the reason so many returning vets are self-destructive and are not helped, or only partly helped, by established treatments for PTSD.
Moral injury has some of the symptoms of PTSD, especially anger, depression, anxiety, nightmares, insomnia and self-medication with drugs or alcohol.
And it may benefit from some of the same treatments.
But moral injury has an added burden of guilt, grief, shame, regret, sorrow and alienation that requires a very different approach to reach the core of a sufferers psyche.
Unlike the soldiers who were drafted to serve in Vietnam, the members of the armed forces today chose to enlist.
Those deployed to Iraq thought at first they were fighting to bring democracy to the country, then were told later it was to win hearts and minds.
But to many of those in battle, the real effect was to terrorize people, as one veteran says in the film.
Another said, Thats not what we signed up for.
That war can be morally compromising is not a new idea and has been true in every war.
But the therapeutic community is only now becoming aware of the dimensions of moral injury and how it can be treated.
Father Thomas Keating, a founding member of Contemplative Outreach, says in the film, Antidepressants dont reach the depth of what these men are feeling, that they did something terribly wrong and dont know if they can be forgiven.
The first challenge, though, is to get emotionally damaged veterans to acknowledge their hidden agony and seek professional help instead of trying to suppress it, often by engaging in self-destructive behaviors.
A lot of vets wont seek help because whats haunting them are not heroic acts, or they were betrayed, or they cant live with themselves because they made a mistake, said Brett Litz, a mental health specialist with the V.A.
Boston Healthcare System and a leading expert on moral injury.
The second challenge is to win their trust, to reassure them that they will not be judged and are deserving of forgiveness.
Therapists who study and treat moral injury have found that no amount of medication can relieve the pain of trying to live with an unbearable moral burden.
They say those suffering from moral injury contribute significantly to the horrific toll of suicide among returning vets  estimated as high as 18 to 22 a day in the United States, more than the number lost in combat.
The film features two very troubled veterans of the war in Iraq, Tom Voss and Anthony Anderson, who decide to walk from Milwaukee to Los Angeles  2,700 miles taking 155 days  to help them heal from the combat experiences that haunt them and threaten to destroy their most valued relationships.
Six years after returning from his second deployment in Iraq, Mr. Voss said of his mental state before taking the cross-country trek, If anything, its worse now.
Along the way, the two men raise awareness of the unrelenting pain of moral injury many vets face and encourage them to seek treatment.
Mr. Voss and Mr. Anderson were helped by a number of counselors and treatments, including a Native American spiritual healer and a meditative technique called power breathing.
They also found communing with nature to be restorative, enabling them to again recognize beauty in the world.
Shira Maguen, a research psychologist and clinician at the San Francisco V.A.
Medical Center, who studies and treats vets suffering from moral injury, said, We have a big focus on self-forgiveness.
We have them write a letter to the person they killed or to a younger version of themselves.
We focus on making amends, planning for their future and moving forward, especially important since many think they have no future.
Dr. Maguen, who studied how killing during combat affects suicidal ideation in returning vets, found that those who had killed were at much higher risk of suicide, even when controlling for factors like PTSD, depression and alcohol and drug abuse.
She said in an interview that decades after the Vietnam War, there was still an impact on veterans who killed enemy combatants, and an even stronger effect on those who killed women and children.
Photo

To overcome veterans reluctance to seek help for moral injury, Dr. Maguen incorporates mental health care into routine clinical visits.
In Boston, Dr. Litz and colleagues are testing a therapeutic approach called adaptive disclosure, a technique akin to confession.
With eyes closed, the vets are asked to verbally share vivid details of their trauma with an imagined compassionate person who loves them, then imagine how that person would respond.
The therapist guides the conversation along a path toward healing.
Disclosing, sharing, confessing is fundamental to repair, Dr. Litz said.
In doing so, the vets learn that what happened to them can be tolerated, theyre not rejected.
They are also encouraged to engage in the world in a way that is repairing  for example, by helping children or writing letters.
The goal is to find forgiveness within themselves or from others.
One fact that all agree on: The process is a lengthy one.
As Mr. Voss said, I knew after the walk I still had a long road of healing ahead of me.
Now, however, he has some useful tools and he shares them freely.
Related:

For more fitness, food and wellness news, follow us on Facebook and Twitter, or sign up for our newsletter.
Think Like a Doctor Solve a medical mystery with Dr. Lisa Sanders.
On Thursday, we challenged Well readers to solve the case of a previously healthy 67-year-old gardener who abandoned his garden one summer, alarming his wife and adult children.
For weeks this vibrant and energetic man had been the last one out of bed  something his family had never seen before.
And his days were interrupted each afternoon with a fever that left him shaking and pale.
More than 300 readers suggested diagnoses for this classic presentation of an unusual disease, and a couple dozen of you nailed it.
The correct diagnosis is

Babesiosis

The first person to identify this unusual infection was Dr. Paige Szymanowski, a resident in her second year of training in internal medicine at the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston.
She said she recognized the pattern of a fever with a low blood count, low platelet count and evidence of liver injury.
Dr. Szymanowski hasnt made up her mind what kind of doctor shes going to be, but she is thinking of subspecializing in infectious diseases.
I think she shows real promise in this area.
Well done!
The Diagnosis

Babesiosis is caused by the parasite Babesia microti, a protozoa.
It is usually transmitted by Ixodes scapularis, better known as the deer tick, the same small arthropod that transmits Lyme disease.
Sometimes the two diseases occur together, passed on in the same bite.
The disease can also be spread through blood transfusions from an infected donor.
Babesiosis is rare and occurs primarily in the Northeast and Upper Midwest  Minnesota and Wisconsin  regions of the United States.
In healthy people it often causes no symptoms.
However, those who are over 65 or who have some type of immune suppression  because of a chronic disease or medication  or those who dont have a spleen are more likely to develop symptoms and can become quite ill or even die from this infection.
Easy to Miss

Babesiosis is difficult to diagnose, and the diagnosis is often overlooked, even in areas where infection is most common.
Patients with babesiosis have few, if any, localizing signs to suggest the disease.
Fever  which can be constant or, as was the case with this patient, intermittent  is common.
So are shaking, chills, fatigue, loss of appetite, abdominal pain and headache.
These symptoms, however, are seen in many infections.
And indeed, our patient had all of these symptoms, but it took many weeks for him to get a diagnosis.
The diagnosis is confirmed when the ring form of the protozoa is seen on a blood smear, or when the Babesia DNA is detected in the blood.
Doxycycline, which is used to treat other tick-borne diseases, is ineffective against this organism.
An antimalarial medication (atovaquone) plus an antibiotic (azithromycin) are first-line treatments against this infection.
Improvement is usually seen within 48 hours of starting the drugs.
Although the infection will often resolve without treatment, all who are diagnosed with the disease should be treated since, in rare cases, the bug will persist and become symptomatic if a patient later develops some immune system problem or has his spleen removed.
How the Diagnosis Was Made

Dr. Neil Gupta was leading the daytime on-call team at Saint Raphaels hospital in New Haven, Conn., where the patients daughter had taken him.
Dr. Gupta heard about this patient when the night team handed off the patients they had admitted on their shift and met him that morning.
Seeing how well the patient looked, and hearing that hed been given the usually benign diagnosis of hepatitis A, he turned his attention to patients who seemed sicker and more in need of thought and care.
Until the patient spiked his usual afternoon fever.
One of the ways the doctors mind works is to put together pictures of what a disease looks like in a patient.
We put these so-called illness scripts together based on our knowledge of the disease plus the patients we have seen who have had it.
When Dr. Gupta heard that the patient had spiked a temperature, he went back to see how he was doing.
The patient was pleasant but didnt say much.
Perhaps there was a language barrier  he spoke with a thick Italian accent.
Or perhaps he was one of those patients who just dont focus on what ails them.
Hearing From the Patients Family

The patients wife and daughter, however, had been much more attuned to the changes in his health and behavior, and what they reported didnt really sound like hepatitis.
Was this the right diagnosis, Dr. Gupta wondered?
He sat down with the family in the nursing lounge and let them tell the whole story as they recalled it.
The man had actually been sick for several weeks.
Hed had a fever every day.
And he was tired.
Normally he never sat down, was never idle.
These days it seemed he never left the house anymore.
Never went into the garden.
He just sat on the sofa.
For hours.
Sometimes he had pain in his upper abdomen, but never any nausea; he had never vomited.
But he did have a cough.
This was not the man they knew, the women told him.
Reviewing the Symptoms

Dr. Gupta returned to the patient and examined him, this time quite carefully, looking for the signs common in hep A.
The mans skin was dark but not yellow; and his eyes, while appearing tired, showed no hint of yellow either.
His liver was not enlarged or tender.
He didnt look to Dr. Gupta like a patient who had hepatitis A.
The patient did have tests that were positive for hepatitis A, however.
Could these tests be wrong?
Dr. Gupta suspected that was the case.
O.K., if not hepatitis A, what did he have?
The young internist made a list of the key components of the case: He had recurring fevers every afternoon.
He had a cough and some upper abdominal pain.
Not very specific  except for the repeating fevers.
The labs were a little more helpful.
His liver showed signs of very mild injury  again, not consistent with hepatitis A, which usually causes significant liver insult.
However, he did have a mild anemia that had gotten worse over the past three days.
Hed had his blood count drawn two days earlier, when he went to the emergency room at YaleNew Haven Hospital.
That showed a very mild anemia  slightly fewer red blood cells than normal.
The evening before, the patients red blood cell count had dropped further.
And today, even further.
So his red blood cells were being destroyed somehow.
To Dr. Gupta, that seemed to be a second important clue.
In addition, his platelets were quite low.
Many Possiblities

So, the patient had cyclic fevers, a worsening anemia and a mild liver injury.
That suggested a very different set of diseases.
The patient was a gardener and had been treated for Lyme disease.
Could he have a different tick-borne illness?
Certainly a number of illnesses could present this way.
The cyclic fevers were suggestive of malaria  rare in this country, but still worth thinking about.
Could this be mononucleosis?
Or even H.I.V.?
Those diseases can affect red blood cells and the liver.
And they can last weeks or months.
If those tests were negative, he would need to start looking for autoimmune diseases or cancers.
Finally, he would need to review the blood smear with the pathologist.
Several of these diseases can provide clues when you look at the blood itself.
An Answer in the Blood

A call came to Dr. Gupta late the next day.
The pathologist had tested the patients blood for the presence of the Babesia gene, and found it.
The patient had babesiosis.
Dr. Gupta went down to look at the blood smear with the pathologist.
There, in the middle of a sea of normal looking red blood cells, was a tiny pear-shaped object.
It was one of the protozoa.
Dr. Gupta was excited.
He pulled up a picture of the tick that spreads the disease and the tiny bug that causes it to show to the family.
This was what was making the patient so very sick.
How the Patient Fared

The patient was started on the two medications to treat babesiosis the same day.
Twenty-four hours later he spent his first day completely fever-free  the first in several weeks.
After a couple more days, the patient was up and walking around, asking to go home.
He went home the following day, with instructions to take his two medications twice a day for a total of 10 days.
That was last summer.
This summer, the patient is back in his garden.
He is a little more careful to avoid getting tick bites.
He wears his long pants tucked into his socks and his wife looks him over every night  just to be sure.
Photo

Personal Health Jane Brody on health and aging.
Lenore Skenazy, a New York City mother of two, earned the sobriquet Americas Worst Mom after reporting in a newspaper column that she had allowed her younger son, then 9, to ride the subway alone.
The damning criticism she endured, including a threat of arrest for child endangerment, intensified her desire to encourage anxious parents to give their children the freedom they need to develop the self-confidence and resilience to cope effectively with lifes many challenges.
One result was the publication in 2009 of her book Free Range Kids: How to Raise Safe, Self-Reliant Children (Without Going Nuts With Worry).
A second result is the Free Range Kids Project and a 13-part series, starting Thursday on Discovery Life Channel, called Worlds Worst Mom.
In it, Ms. Skenazy intervenes to rescue bubble-wrapped kids from their overprotective parents by guiding the children safely through a sequence of once-forbidden activities and showing their anxious parents how well the children perform and how proud they are of what they accomplished.
The term helicopter parents applies to far more than those who hover relentlessly over their childrens academic and musical development.
As depicted in the first episode of the series, it applies to 10-year-old Sams very loving mother who wouldnt let him ride a bike (shes afraid Ill fall and get hurt), cut up his own meat (Mom thinks Ill cut my fingers off), or play rough sports like skating.
The plea from a stressed-out, thwarted Sam: I just want to do things by myself.
In an interview, Ms. Skenazy said, Having been brainwashed by all the stories we hear, theres a prevailing fear that any time youre not directly supervising your child, youre putting the child in danger.
The widespread publicity now given to crimes has created an exaggerated fear of the dangers children face if left to navigate and play on their own.
Yet, according to Peter Gray, a research psychologist at Boston College, the actual rate of strangers abducting or molesting children is very small.
Its more likely to happen at the hands of a relative or family friend.
The statistics show no increase in childhood dangers.
If anything, theres been a decrease.
Experts say there is no more crime against children by strangers today  and probably significantly less  than when I was growing up in the 1940s and 50s, a time when I walked to school alone and played outdoors with friends unsupervised by adults.
The world is not perfect  it never was  but we used to trust our children in it, and they learned to be resourceful, Ms. Skenazy said.
The message these anxious parents are giving to their children is I love you, but I dont believe in you.
I dont believe youre as competent as I am.
Dr. Gray, author of Free to Learn: Why Unleashing the Instinct to Play Will Make Our Children Happier, More Self-Reliant, and Better Students for Life, said in an interview, If children are not allowed to take routine risks, theyll be less likely to be able to handle real risks when they do occur.
Case in point: His colleges counseling office has seen a doubling in the rate of emergency calls in the last five years, mainly for problems kids used to solve on their own, like being called a bad name by a roommate or finding a mouse in the room.
Students are prepared academically, but theyre not prepared to deal with day-to-day life, which comes from a lack of opportunity to deal with ordinary problems, Dr. Gray said.
Over the past 60 years, theres been a huge change, well documented by social scientists, in the hours a day children play outdoors  less than half as much as parents did at their childrens ages, he said.
In decades past, children made up their own games and acquired important life skills in the process.
In pickup games, Dr. Gray said, children make the rules, negotiate, and figure out whats fair to keep everyone happy.
They develop creativity, empathy and the ability to read the minds of other players, instead of having adults make the rules and solve all the problems.
Dr. Gray links the astronomical rise in childhood depression and anxiety disorders, which are five to eight times more common than they were in the 1950s, to the decline in free play among young children.
Young people today are less likely to have a sense of control over their own lives and more likely to feel they are the victims of circumstances, which is predictive of anxiety and depression, he said.
There are also physical consequences to restricting childrens outdoor play because there are no adults available to supervise it.
Children today spend many more hours indoors than in years past, which in part accounts for the rise in childhood obesity and Type 2 diabetes.
Many elementary schools have even canceled recess, believing it is time better spent cramming childrens heads with facts and figures.
Childhood should be a time of freedom and play, not building a rsum for college, Dr. Gray said.
As Ms. Skenazy put it, if parents truly believe children must be supervised every second of the day, then they cant walk to school, play in the park, or wake up Saturday morning, get on their bikes and go have an adventure.
Some 2,000 families were screened by the Discovery Life Channel to find 13 families crippled by anxiety yet willing to have an intervention.
The parents werent easy pushovers, Ms. Skenazy said.
Some were very unhappy to see me at first.
But once pride in what their children achieved replaced their fears, they were ecstatic  relaxed and happy instead of crippled with fear.
Ms. Skenazy spent four days with each family, introducing a different challenge each day.
Sam learned to cut cheese and slice a tomato with a sharp knife and then made sandwiches for his parents.
He also learned to ride a two-wheeler.
I dont guarantee Ill take away all their worry, just give them the confidence to loosen the reins on their kids, she said.
Kids need roots and wings.
Parents give them roots.
I give them wings.
I've been reading a lot about rebounding as an excellent exercise for all ages.
The benefits seem almost miraculous, but I don't find any articles in Well about this form of exercise.
Have you looked into it?
A

Many websites do tout almost miraculous benefits from jumping on a rebounder or, as it is also known, a minitrampoline, claiming that such workouts improve fitness, build bone, spur lymphatic drainage, fight depression, and goose the health of every cell in your body, since they supposedly experience beneficial G-force pressure during a workout.
These claims are unproven.
Enthusiasts often cite a 1980 study by NASA scientists showing that rebounding required more effort than running while it was gentler on joints.
More recent science disagrees.
By most estimates, rebound exercise is, at best, aerobically mild, requiring less effort than bowling and about the same as playing croquet.
Even competitive trampoline athletes get less of a workout per minute than most runners.
There also is little or no scientific evidence that rebounding benefits the lymph system, bones, mood or cellular health.
But rebounding does improve balance in older people.
A study published in November in the Archives of Gerontology and Geriatrics found that older women were less wobbly after 12 weeks of gentle, supervised rebounding exercise, although women who completed standard balance training showed similar improvement.
Exercising on a trampoline, even a mini one, also has risks.
Trampoline-related injuries send many people to emergency rooms or orthopedists every year,epidemiological studies show.
Interestingly, in adults, trampoline injuries typically involve joint sprains, while small children tend to tumble off and require stitches.
The upshot: If you decide to use a rebounder, exercise caution, and if your primary goal is fitness, consider bowling, a safer activity that requires more physiological effort.
And now, against all odds, his cancer is in remission and has been since last fall.
While no one can say that Dr. Wartman is cured, after facing certain death last fall, he is alive and doing well.
Dr. Wartman is a pioneer in a new approach to stopping cancer.
What is important, medical researchers say, is the genes that drive a cancer, not the tissue or organ  liver or brain, bone marrow, blood or colon  where the cancer originates.
One womans breast cancer may have different genetic drivers from another womans and, in fact, may have more in common with prostate cancer in a man or another patients lung cancer.
Under this new approach, researchers expect that treatment will be tailored to an individual tumors mutations, with drugs, eventually, that hit several key aberrant genes at once.
The cocktails of medicines would be analogous to H.I.V.
treatment, which uses several different drugs at once to strike the virus in a number of critical areas.
Researchers differ about how soon the method, known as whole genome sequencing, will be generally available and paid for by insurance  estimates range from a few years to a decade or so.
But they believe that it has enormous promise, though it has not yet cured anyone.
With a steep drop in the costs of sequencing and an explosion of research on genes, medical experts expect that genetic analyses of cancers will become routine.
Just as pathologists do blood cultures to decide which antibiotics will stop a patients bacterial infection, so will genome sequencing determine which drugs might stop a cancer.
Until you know what is driving a patients cancer, you really dont have any chance of getting it right, Dr. Ley said.
For the past 40 years, we have been sending generals into battle without a map of the battlefield.
What we are doing now is building the map.
Large drug companies and small biotechs are jumping in, starting to test drugs that attack a gene rather than a tumor type.
Photo

Leading cancer researchers are starting companies to find genes that might be causing an individuals cancer to grow, to analyze genetic data and to find and test new drugs directed against these genetic targets.
Leading venture capital firms are involved.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

For now, whole genome sequencing is in its infancy and dauntingly complex.
The gene sequences are only the start  they come in billions of small pieces, like a huge jigsaw puzzle.
The arduous job is to figure out which mutations are important, a task that requires skill, experience and instincts.
So far, most who have chosen this path are wealthy and well connected.
When Steve Jobs had exhausted other options to combat pancreatic cancer, he consulted doctors who coordinated his genetic sequencing and analysis.
It cost him $100,000, according to his biographer.
The writer Christopher Hitchens went to the head of the National Institutes of Health, Dr. Francis Collins, who advised him on where to get a genetic analysis of his esophageal cancer.
Harvard Medical School expects eventually to offer whole genome sequencing to help cancer patients identify treatments, said Heidi L. Rehm, who heads the molecular medicine laboratory at Harvards Partners Healthcare Center for Personalized Genetic Medicine.
But later this year, Partners will take a more modest step, offering whole genome sequencing to patients with a suspected hereditary disorder in hopes of identifying mutations that might be causing the disease.
Whole genome sequencing of the type that Dr. Wartman had, Dr. Rehm added, is a whole other level of complexity.
Dr. Wartman was included by his colleagues in a research study, and his genetic analysis was paid for by the university and research grants.
Such opportunities are not available to most patients, but Dr. Ley noted that the group had done such an analysis for another patient the year before and that no patients were being neglected because of the urgent work to figure out Dr. Wartmans cancer.
The precedent for moving quickly on a sample to make a key decision was already established, Dr. Ley said.
Ethicists ask whether those with money and connections should have options far out of reach for most patients before such treatments become a normal part of medicine.
And will people of more limited means be tempted to bankrupt their families in pursuit of a cure at the far edges?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

If we say we need research because this is a new idea, then why is it that rich people can even access it?
asked Wylie Burke, professor and chairwoman of the department of bioethics at the University of Washington.
The saving grace, she said, is that the method will become available to all if it works.
A Life in Medicine

It was pure happenstance that landed Dr. Wartman in a university at the forefront of cancer research.
He grew up in small-town Indiana, aspiring to be a veterinarian like his grandfather.
But in college, he worked summers in hospitals and became fascinated by cancer.
He enrolled in medical school at Washington University in St. Louis, where he was drawn to research on genetic changes that occur in cancers of the blood.
Dr. Wartman knew then what he wanted to do  become a physician researcher.
Those plans fell apart in the winter of 2002, his last year of medical school, when he went to California to be interviewed for a residency program at Stanford.
On the morning of his visit, he was nearly paralyzed by an overwhelming fatigue.
I could not get out of bed for an interview that was the most important of my life, Dr. Wartman recalled.
Somehow, he forced himself to drive to Palo Alto in a drenching rain.
He rallied enough to get through the day.
Photo

When he returned to St. Louis, he gave up running, too exhausted for the sport he loved.
He started having night sweats.
I thought it might be mono, he said.
And I thought I would ride it out.
But then the long bones in his legs began to hurt.
He was having fevers.
He was so young then  only 25  and had always been so healthy that his only doctor was a pediatrician.
So he went to an urgent care center in February 2003.
The doctor there thought his symptoms might come from depression, but noticed that his red and white blood cell counts were low.
And Lukas Wartman, who had been fascinated by the biology of leukemia, began to suspect he had it.
I was definitely scared, he said.
It was so unreal.
The next day, Mr. Wartman, who was about to graduate from Washington Universitys medical school, went back there for more tests.
A doctor slid a long needle into his hip bone and drew out marrow for analysis.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We looked at the slide together, Dr. Wartman said, recalling that terrible time.
It was packed with leukemia cells.
I was in a state of shock.
Dr. Wartman remained at the university for his residency and treatment: nine months of intensive chemotherapy, followed by 15 months of maintenance chemotherapy.
Five years passed when the cancer seemed to be gone.
But then it came back.
Next came the most risky remedy  intensive chemotherapy to put the cancer into remission followed by a bone-marrow transplant from his younger brother.
Seven months after the transplant, feeling much stronger, he went to a major cancer meeting and sat in on a session on his type of leukemia.
The speaker, a renowned researcher, reported that only 4 or 5 percent of those who relapsed survived.
My stomach turned, Dr. Wartman said.
I will never forget the shock of hearing that number.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But his personal gauge of recovery  how far he could run  was encouraging.
By last spring, three years after his transplant, Dr. Wartman was running six to seven miles every other day and feeling good.
I thought maybe I would run a half marathon in the fall.
Then the cancer came back.
He remembered that number, 4 or 5 percent, for patients with one relapse.
He had relapsed a second time.
This time, he said, There is no number.
His doctors put him on a clinical trial to try to beat the cancer with chemotherapy and hormones.
It did not work.
They infused him with his brothers healthy marrow cells, to no avail.
A Clue in RNA

Dr. Wartmans doctors realized then that their last best hope for saving him was to use all the genetic know-how and technology at their disposal.
Photo

After their month of frantic work to beat cancers relentless clock, the group, led by Richard Wilson and Elaine Mardis, directors of the universitys genome institute, had the data.
It was Aug. 31.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The cancers DNA had, as expected, many mutations, but there was nothing to be done about them.
There were no drugs to attack them.
But the other analysis, of the cancers RNA, was different.
There was something there, something unexpected.
The RNA sequencing showed that a normal gene, FLT3, was wildly active in the leukemia cells.
Its normal role is to make cells grow and proliferate.
An overactive FLT3 gene might be making Dr. Wartmans cancer cells multiply so quickly.
Even better, there was a drug, sunitinib or Sutent, approved for treating advanced kidney cancer, that inhibits FLT3.
But it costs $330 a day, and Dr. Wartmans insurance company would not pay for it.
He appealed twice to his insurer and lost both times.
He also pleaded with the drugs maker, Pfizer, to give him the drug under its compassionate use program, explaining that his entire salary was only enough to pay for 7  months of Sutent.
But Pfizer turned him down too.
As September went by, Dr. Wartman was getting panicky.
Every day is a roller coaster, he said at the time, and everything is up in the air.
Desperate to try the drug, he scraped up the money to buy a weeks worth and began taking it on Sept. 16.
Within days, his blood counts were looking more normal.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But over dinner at a trendy St. Louis restaurant, he picked at his chicken and said he was afraid to hope.
Obviously its exciting, he said.
But Sutent could have unanticipated effects on my bone marrow.
Maybe his rising red blood cell counts were just a side effect of the drug.
Or maybe they were just a coincidence.
Its hard to say if I feel any different, Dr. Wartman said.
And the cost of the drug nagged at him.
If it worked, how long could he afford to keep taking it?
Photo

The next day, a nurse at the hospital pharmacy called with what seemed miraculous news: a months supply of Sutent was waiting for Dr. Wartman.
He did not know at the time, but the doctors in his division had pitched in to buy the drug.
Two weeks later, his bone marrow, which had been full of leukemia cells, was clean, a biopsy showed.
Still, he was nervous.
The test involved taking out just a small amount of marrow.
Cancer cells could be lurking unseen.
The next test was flow cytometry, which used antibodies to label cancer cells.
Again, there were no cancer cells.
But even flow cytometry could be misleading, Dr. Wartman told himself.
Finally, a yet more sensitive test, called FISH, was done.
It labels cancer cells with fluorescent pieces of DNA to identify leukemia cells.
Once again, there were none.
I cant believe it, his awe-struck physician, Dr. John DiPersio, told him.
Dr. Wartman, alone in his apartment, waited for his partner, Damon Berardi, to come home from work.
That evening, Mr. Berardi, a 31-year-old store manager, opened the door with no idea of Dr. Wartmans momentous news.
To his surprise, Dr. Wartman was home early, waiting in the kitchen with champagne and two flutes he had given Mr. Berardi for Christmas.
He told Mr. Berardi he should sit down.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

My leukemia is in remission, he said.
The men embraced exultantly, and Dr. Wartman popped open the champagne.
I felt an overwhelming sense of relief and a renewed vision of our future together, Mr. Berardi said.
There were no tears at that moment.
We had both had cried plenty.
This was a moment of hope.
Hunches and Decisions

Dr. Wartman and his doctors had fateful decisions to make, with nothing but hunches to guide them.
Should he keep taking Sutent or have another bone-marrow transplant now that he was in remission again?
In the end, Dr. DiPersio decided Dr. Wartman should have the transplant because without it the cancer might mutate and escape the Sutent.
Meanwhile, Pfizer had decided to give him the drug.
Dr. Wartman has no idea why.
Perhaps the company was swayed by an impassioned plea from his nurse practitioner, Stephanie Bauer.
Dr. Wartmans cancer is still gone, for now, but he has struggled with a common complication of bone-marrow transplants, in which the white blood cells of the transplanted marrow attack his cells as though they were foreign.
He has had rashes and felt ill.
But these complications are gradually lessening, and he is back at work in Dr. Leys lab.
His colleagues want to look for the same mutation in the cancer cells of other patients with his cancer.
And they would like to start a clinical trial testing Sutent to discover whether the drug can help others with leukemia, or whether the solution they found was unique to Lukas Wartman.
Dr. Wartman himself is left with nagging uncertainties.
He knows how lucky he is, but what does the future hold?
Can he plan a life?
Is he cured?
Its a hard feeling to describe, he said.
I am in uncharted waters.
Monday: Promise and heartbreak.
Rwanda has been so successful at fighting measles that next month it will be the first country to get donor support to move to the next stage  fighting rubella too.
On March 11, it will hold a nationwide three-day vaccination campaign with a combined measles-rubella vaccine, hoping to reach nearly five million children up to age 14.
It will then integrate the dual vaccine into its national health service.
Rwanda can do so because theyve done such a good job on measles, said Christine McNab, a spokeswoman for the Measles and Rubella Initiative.
M.R.I.
helped pay for previous vaccination campaigns in the country and the GAVI Alliance is helping to finance the upcoming one.
Rubella, also called German measles, causes a rash that is very similar to the measles rash, making it hard for health workers to tell the difference.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Rubella is generally mild, even in children, but in pregnant women, it can kill the fetus or cause serious birth defects, including blindness, deafness, mental retardation and chronic heart damage.
Scientists have created new strains of polio intended to protect workers in factories that make polio vaccine.
The new strains have the same ability to invoke an immune reaction as the live viruses now used to make vaccine do, but there is virtually no risk anyone will get polio if one of the new strains somehow escapes.
The research team, at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, is led by Eckard A. F. Wimmer, a molecular geneticist who made headlines in 1991 when he synthesized polio virus in the lab from its chemical components, the first time a virus had been made outside of living cells.
The world is very close to eliminating polio, which is now endemic to only three countries: Afghanistan, Nigeria and Pakistan.
But to be sure the disease is gone, children will have to be vaccinated for several years after the last detected case.
Currently, factories making the injectable Salk vaccine used in the United States and Europe start with the dangerous wild-type viruses known as Types 1, 2 and 3.
After growing a large batch, vaccine makers kill the virus with formaldehyde and prepare it for syringes.
The finished product is safe, but if the growing live viruses ever escaped because of a leak, an explosion, an earthquake, a tsunami, a flood, Dr. Wimmer said, the spill could spread like wildfire.
Photo

Right now, polio eradication depends on large sweeps by volunteers putting drops of the oral Sabin vaccine into childrens mouths.
It is easy to give, and it produces better immunity because it reaches the intestines, which are lined with receptors for the virus.
