GROVE, England (Reuters) - A Formula One racing team is employing technology that helps racing drivers survive high speed crashes to create a new device that keeps newborn babies safe during emergency transportation.
The device, known as the Babypod 20, is made from carbon fiber - the same material used in Formula One cars bodywork.
It can withstand a 20 g-force impact and provides newborns with a secure, temperature-controlled environment for ambulance transportation.
It was designed and built by Williams Advanced Engineering, an arm of the UK-based Williams F1 team, in collaboration with healthcare firm Advanced Healthcare Technology (AHT).
This challenge of providing a lightweight, strong pod to put infants in to be moved around is absolutely the same challenge, virtually, as were trying to tackle in the main chassis of a Formula 1 car, Paul McNamara, Technical Director at Williams Advanced Engineering, told Reuters.
We need it to be strong, light, and crash-proof.
There were 7,938 medical transfers of newborn children in the UK in the 12 months up to June 2017, according to the UKs Neonatal Transport Group, a medical association specializing in the transporting children.
A device known as the Babypod 20, made from carbon fibre, is seen next to part of a Formula One car at Williams Advanced Engineering, in Grove, Britain, September 28, 2016.
Malcolm Griffiths/Williams Advanced Engineering handout via REUTERS

Typically, providing emergency transport to newborn children requires the use of large incubators, which require a power supply and specialist vehicles.
The pods are now being used by the UKs Childrens Acute Transport Service.
Eithne Polke, the services operational manager, said the design had made a big difference to our transportation processes.
A device known as the Babypod 20, made from carbon fibre, is seen at Williams Advanced Engineering, in Grove, Britain, September 28, 2016.
Malcolm Griffiths/Williams Advanced Engineering handout via REUTERS

Williams says it expects to make around 500 of the devices in the first year of production.
F1 teams frequently put their engineering know-how to use outside the sport.
Williams rivals McLaren have applied data management and race simulation expertise to help Londons Heathrow airport improve movements on the ground and reduce the time spent by planes circling overhead.
Williams previously developed a device to save money and energy by using aerodynamic technology developed through racing to keep more cold air inside open-fronted refrigerators.
DUBAI (Reuters) - Dubai staged a test flight on Monday for what it said would soon be the worlds first drone taxi service under an ambitious plan by the United Arab Emirates city to lead the Arab world in innovation.
The flying taxi developed by German drone firm Volocopter resembles a small, two-seater helicopter cabin topped by a wide hoop studded with 18 propellers.
It was unmanned for its maiden test run in a ceremony arranged for Dubai Crown Prince Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed.
Meant to fly without remote control guidance and with a maximum flight duration of 30 minutes, it comes with plenty of fail-safes in case of trouble: back-up batteries, rotors and, for a worst case scenario, a couple of parachutes.
Volocopter is in a race with more than a dozen well-funded European and U.S. firms, each with its own science fiction-inspired vision for creating a new form of urban transport that is a cross between a driverless electric car and a short-haul, vertical takeoff-and-landing aircraft.
These include aerospace giant Airbus, which aims to put a self-piloting taxi in the air by 2020; Kitty Hawk, a company backed by Google co-founder Larry Page; and Uber, which is working with partners on its own flying taxi strategy.
A man looks on as the flying taxi is seen in Dubai, United Arab Emirates September 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Satish Kumar

Implementation would see you using your smartphone, having an app, and ordering a Volocopter to the next voloport near you.
The volocopter would come and autonomously pick you up and take you to your destination, CEO Florian Reuter said.
It already is capable of flying based on GPS tracks today, and we will implement full sense capability, also dealing with unknown obstacles on the way, he added, saying developers aimed to initiate the taxis within five years.
Slideshow (6 Images)

In Mondays test flight, the device hovered upward about 200 meters and whirred for about five minutes over a windswept patch of sand astride the emirates Gulf coast.
Attired in crisp white robes and headdresses, Sheikh Hamdan and his entourage clapped approvingly from a nearby viewing deck as the craft alighted.
The UAE has sought to distinguish itself in a region mired in war and strife as a high-tech, forward-looking society.
It plans to send an unmanned probe to Mars by 2021, the Arab worlds first mission to space, and Dubai has in many ways led their showy march into the future by introducing the regions first driverless metro and robot policemen prototypes.
Encouraging innovation and adopting the latest technologies contributes not only to the countrys development but also builds bridges into the future, Sheikh Hamdan said in a statement.
CU Boulder Associate Professor Karen Chin excavates dinosaur coprolites at Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument in Utah, in this May 10, 2013 photo.
Courtesy University of Colorado/Handout via REUTERS

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Some plant-eating dinosaurs apparently liked a side order of crabs to go with their usual salad.
Scientists said on Thursday fossilized dung thought to have come from herbivorous duck-billed dinosaurs that inhabited southern Utah 75 million years ago contained pieces of crustacean shells along with vestiges of vegetation.
The discovery provides the strongest evidence to date that some large herbivorous dinosaurs sometimes strayed from a purely vegetarian diet, said University of Colorado paleontologist Karen Chin, who led the research published in the journal Scientific Reports.
This was a very exciting discovery, precisely because it was so unexpected, Chin said.
Fossilized dung, called coprolites, offers insight into the diet of extinct creatures that cannot be gleaned by merely studying teeth, jaws and skeletons.
Ten coprolites from Utahs Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument contained crustacean shells mixed with rotted coniferous wood.
For at least part of the year these duck-billed dinosaurs may have munched on rotting logs because they contained stores of crustaceans and other invertebrates, Chin said.
Field Museum scientists Pete Makovicky (L), Associate Curator of Dinosaurs, and Bill Simpson, Head of Geological Collections, use a cast of one of the T. rex SUEs gastralia -- a set of bones that look like an additional set of ribs -- to show where they will be positioned on her skeleton in Chicago, Illinois, U.S. in this undated handout photo obtained by Reuters August 29, 2017.
Zachary James Johnston/The Field Museum/Handout via REUTERS

Chin said the researchers do not know precisely what types of crustaceans were eaten by the dinosaurs, but it was possible they were crabs.
A variety of crustaceans also including crayfish and pillbugs are known to shelter in the moist environments of rotting logs.
The crustaceans were at least two inches (5 cm) long.
Rotting wood and fungal tissues would have offered useful nutritional compounds such as cellulose and fiber, and the crustaceans would have provided good sources of protein and calcium.
Protein is an important component of animal diets, and is particularly important when animals are breeding, Chin said.
The size of two dinosaurs, the Argentine titanosaur Patagotitan mayorum and the North American predator Tyrannosaurus rex are compared with a human figure for scale, in this handout illustration obtained by Reuters August 29, 2017.
The Field Museum/Handout via REUTERS

The researchers think eating crustaceans may have been a seasonal dietary change linked to breeding and egg-laying.
Some birds, the evolutionary descendants of dinosaurs, consume more protein and calcium during breeding season.
Duck-billed dinosaurs, also called hadrosaurs, earned their name because the front of their skull resembles a ducks bill.
They also possessed beaks and specialized teeth for grinding plant material, and are believed to have roamed the landscape in herds.
Two hadrosaurs that lived in the area at the time were: Parasaurolophus, roughly 33 feet (10 meters) long with a long tubular head crest; and Gryposaurus, about 39 feet (12 meters) long with an arched nasal crest.
Hadrosaurs were common in western North America and other parts of the world during the Cretaceous Period, representing an important plant-eating group alongside armored dinosaurs and horned dinosaurs.
A primitive type of jellyfish called Cassiopea, which goes to sleep nightly, is seen on the floor of their tank at Caltech in Pasadena, California, U.S. in this image released on September 20, 2017.
Courtesy Caltech/Handout via REUTERS

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Even a jellyfish - one of Earths first and most ancient animals - needs its sleep.
Scientists said on Thursday they have demonstrated that a primitive type of jellyfish called Cassiopea goes to sleep nightly.
While sleep has been confirmed in other invertebrates such as worms and fruit flies, the jellyfish is the most evolutionarily ancient animal that has been shown to slumber.
These results suggest that even those animals that lack a centralized nervous system require sleep, which means that sleep is one of the most ancient behavioral states, deeply rooted within the animal lineage, California Institute of Technology biologist Ravi Nath said.
Jellyfish have thrived in the seas for at least 600 million years, longer than nearly any other animal.
By comparison, dinosaurs appeared roughly 230 million years ago and humans appeared roughly 300,000 years ago.
The findings involving such a primordial creature raise fresh questions about sleeps origin and purpose.
We do not know if sleep is limited to just animals, said Nath, who helped lead the study published in the journal Current Biology.
Sleep is a genetically encoded behavioral state.
Genes and neural circuits interact to generate the sleep state, Nath added.
I think it would be hard to demonstrate a sleep state in an organism that is not an animal, but I think the sleep state that we know may have been co-opted from periods of quiescence in organisms as diverse as plants, bacteria and fungi.
Jellyfish are among the first animals to have developed neurons - nerve cells - though they lack a brain, spine or central nervous system.
Cassiopea jellyfish live in clear, shallow, tropical waters of the Pacific and western Atlantic oceans, eating plankton.
Measuring about 1-2 inches (2.5-5 cm) in diameter, they are dubbed the upside-down jellyfish because they lie on the seafloor inverted in the water with their tentacles upward.
Through lab experiments, the researchers determined Cassiopea met three important sleep criteria: periods of decreased activity known as behavioral quiescence; a decreased response to stimuli; and an increased sleep drive after being sleep deprived.
The jellyfish were found to display periods of inactivity at night, pulsing their bodies 30 percent less often than during daytime.
When a platform underneath them was removed, they took up to 5 seconds to wake up and reorient themselves.
And when deprived of nighttime sleep by being nudged with a squirt of water, they became more likely to sleep during the day.
The researchers did not examine whether jellyfish dream.
SOURCE: bit.ly/2fElMrT Current Biology, online September 21, 2017.
(Reuters) - The U.S. space agency NASA received a final signal from its Cassini spacecraft on Friday as it ended a groundbreaking, 13-year Saturn mission with a meteor-like plunge into the ringed planets atmosphere.
Cassini, the first spacecraft to orbit Saturn, entered the gaseous giants crushing atmosphere at 7:55 a.m. EDT (1155 GMT) at about 70,000 miles per hour (113,000 km per hour), the National Aeronautics and Space Administration said.
This morning a lone explorer - a machine made by human-kind - finished its mission 900 million miles away, Cassini project manager Earl Maize said at a news conference on Friday at NASAs Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California.
We believe we got every last second of data.
The end of Cassinis voyage, which began with its launch in 1997 and a seven-year journey to Saturn, was met with applause, hugs and tears from NASA officials after its final transmission was received, according to video footage on the space agencys website.
Officials at the news conference displayed the last set of images Cassini captured of Saturn as it crashed into the planet.
The planets lakes and seas near its north pole were visible, along with detailed views of gaps in its massive rings.
Maize said Cassinis data, sent until the final fiery moment, was already being studied by NASA analysts in Arizona.
The transmissions are expected to include unprecedented data from the atmospheres upper fringe, about 1,190 miles (1,915 km) above Saturns cloudtops.
The data took 84 minutes to reach NASA antennas in Canberra, Australia, Maize said.
FILE PHOTO: The spacecraft Cassini is pictured above Saturn's northern hemisphere prior to making one of its Grand Finale dives in this NASA handout illustration obtained by Reuters August 29, 2017.
NASA/Handout via REUTERS

The final dive ended a mission that gave scientists a ringside seat to the sixth planet from the sun.
The spacecrafts discoveries included seasonal changes on Saturn, a hexagon-shaped pattern on its north pole and the moon Titans resemblance to a primordial Earth.
Cassini also found a global ocean on the moon Enceladus, with ice plumes spouting from its surface.
Enceladus has become a promising lead in the search for places outside Earth that could support life.
The spacecraft has produced 450,000 images and 635 gigabytes of data since it began probing Saturn and its 62 known moons in July 2004.
Slideshow (13 Images)

Cassini, a cooperative project between NASA, the European Space Agency and the Italian Space Agency, was launched into space in October 1997 from Cape Canaveral in Florida.
With the spacecraft running low on fuel, NASA crashed it into Saturn to avoid any chance of it someday colliding with and contaminating Titan, Enceladus or another moon that has the potential for indigenous microbial life.
Cassini started a series of 22 orbital dives in April, using Titans gravity to slingshot itself into the unexplored area between the planet and its rings.
The spacecraft studied Saturns atmosphere and took measurements to determine the size of the planets rocky core.
Scientists took to Twitter to share their goodbyes.
Farewell Cassini, how far youve come, astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson said on Twitter.
On this eve, in fiery death, Saturn & you are one.
VIP (Vaporize In Peace): 2004-2017.
BAIKONUR COSMODROME, Kazakhstan (Reuters) - Two U.S. astronauts and a Russian cosmonaut arrived at the International Space Station on Wednesday, about six hours after their Soyuz spacecraft blasted off from Kazakhstan, a NASA TV broadcast showed.
Commander Alexander Misurkin of Roscosmos and flight engineers Mark Vande Hei and Joe Acaba of NASA lifted off from the Baikonur Cosmodrome at 3:17 a.m. local time on Wednesday (2117 GMT/1717 EDT on Tuesday).
Their spacecraft docked at 8:55 a.m..
The crew successfully performed a fast-track transit to the station, which orbits about 250 miles (400 km) above Earth, to begin a five-month mission.
Failure would have forced the spacecraft to take a two-day route for another attempt at docking.
Misurkin, Vande Hei and Acaba have joined NASA astronaut Randy Bresnik, Russias Sergey Ryazanskiy and Paolo Nespoli of the European Space Agency who have been aboard the orbital outpost since July.
To commemorate the upcoming 60th anniversary on Oct.4 of the launch of the first artificial satellite, Sputnik 1, the Soyuz crew used its small model as a zero gravity indicator during the flight on Wednesday.
(Reuters) - Green, purple, pink and yellow lights danced across the sky in striking aurora displays over northern Finland early on Friday.
Travel magazine All About Lapland posted a video on social media of the impressive light show seen from Pallas, in the Muonio region, adding it had rarely seen anything on this scale.
The Northern Lights are a result of collisions between electrically charged particles from the sun that enter the Earths atmosphere.
A strong geomagnetic storm was behind this weeks particularly stunning show.
Known as aurora borealis, or the Northern Lights, in the northern hemisphere, they go by aurora australis, or the Southern Lights, in the southern hemisphere.
LONDON, Sept 7 (Reuters) - The alcohol industry uses denial, distortion and distraction to mislead people about the risks of developing cancer from drinking, often employing similar tactics to those of the tobacco industry, a study said on Thursday.
Drinks industry organizations often present the relationship between alcohol and cancer as highly complex, implying there is no clear evidence of a consistent link, said the study led by scientists at the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine (LSHTM) and Swedens Karolinska Institutet.
Other strategies include denying any relationship exists, or saying inaccurately that there is no risk with moderate drinking, the study found.
The industry also seeks to mention a wide range of other real and potential cancer risk factors in an effort to present alcohol as just one of many, it added.
Responding to the study, the Distilled Spirits Council, a U.S. alcohol trade association, said it was a highly selective review authored by researchers with anti-alcohol biases.
The Council does not recommend that people drink alcohol for potential health benefits, it said in a statement.
Drinking in moderation may pose health risks for some people, and some individuals should not drink at all.
The International Alliance for Responsible Drinking, which represents large brewers and distillers including Anheuser-Busch InBev and Diageo , said it disagreed with the studys conclusions.
We ... stand by the information that we publish on drinking and health, it said.
RISING RISK

The World Health Organization says drinking alcohol is a well-established risk factor for a range of cancers, including tumors of the mouth, liver, breast and colon and bowel.
And the risk of cancer rises with levels of alcohol consumed.
FILE PHOTO: A waiter serves beer in the traditional Schweizerhaus beer garden in Vienna, Austria June 21, 2017.
REUTERS/Leonhard Foeger/File Photo

The research team behind Thursdays study analyzed the information relating to cancer on the websites and documents of nearly 30 alcohol industry organizations around the world between September 2016 and December 2016.
The weight of scientific evidence is clear - drinking alcohol increases the risk of some of the most common forms of cancer, said Mark Petticrew, a professor of public Health at the LSHTM who co-led the study.
It has been argued that greater public awareness, particularly of the risk of breast cancer, poses a significant threat to the alcohol industry.
Our analysis suggests that the major global alcohol producers may attempt to mitigate this by disseminating misleading information.
Petticrews team identified three main industry strategies: Denying any link with cancer, or selective omission of the relationship; distortion by mentioning some risk of cancer, but misrepresenting or obfuscating its size; and distraction by seeking to draw focus away from the risks of alcohol and towards other cancer risks.
One of the most significant findings was that industry materials omitted or misrepresented evidence on breast and bowel cancer, both of which are linked to drinking.
When breast cancer was mentioned, 21 of the organizations studied gave no, or misleading, information about it, the study said.
Ian Gilmore, chair of the Alcohol Health Alliance UK, said the study clearly shows the alcohol industry misleading the public.
With only 1 in 10 people aware of the link between alcohol and cancer, people have both a need and a right to clear information about the health risks of drinking alcohol.
Petticrew said the studys findings, published in the journal Drug and Alcohol Review on Thursday, were important partly because the alcohol industry is often involved in spreading health information to people around the world.
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla (Reuters) - NASA astronaut Peggy Whitson and two crewmates made a parachute touchdown in Kazakhstan on Saturday, capping a career-total 665 days in orbit, a U.S. record.
Whitson, 57, ended an extended stay of more than nine months aboard the International Space Station, a $100 billion research laboratory that flies about 250 miles (400 km) above Earth.
I feel great, the biochemist said during an inflight interview on Monday.
I love working up here.
Its one of the most gratifying jobs Ive ever had.
During her third mission aboard the station, Whitson spent much of her time on experiments, including studies of cancerous lung tissue and bone cells.
She also completed four spacewalks, adding to her six previous outings, to set a record for the most time spent spacewalking by a woman.
Two crewmates who launched with Whitson in November returned to Earth three months ago.
She stayed aboard to fill a vacancy after Russia scaled down its station staff from three to two cosmonauts.
Whitson returned to Earth with Jack Fischer, also with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and Russian cosmonaut Fyodor Yurchikhin, who had been aboard the station since June.
FILE PHOTO - The International Space Station (ISS) crew member, astronaut Peggy Whitson of the U.S. speaks prior to the launch of Soyuz MS-3 space ship at Baikonur cosmodrome, Kazakhstan, November 17, 2016.
REUTERS/Dmitri Lovetsky/Pool/File Photo

The crews Russian Soyuz capsule touched down in Kazakhstan at 9:21 p.m. EDT Saturday.
Im looking forward to seeing friends and family, Whitson said during another interview.
Slideshow (13 Images)

But the thing Ive been thinking about the most, kind of been fantasizing about a little bit, are foods that I want to make, vegetables that I want to saut, things that Ive missed up here.
In April, Whitson broke the 534-day U.S. record for cumulative time in space.
Only seven Russian men have logged more time, including Gennady Padalka, the world record-holder with 878 days in orbit.
Whitson, who grew up on a farm in Iowa, said she was inspired by the U.S. Apollo program that landed men on the moon, but it was not until later, when the first women become astronauts, that she set her sights on joining them.
Whitson, who became an astronaut in 1996, was the first woman to command the space station and also the first woman and first non-pilot to serve as chief of the NASA Astronaut Corps.
I am working on paying forward some of the advice and mentoring that I received on my journey, in hopes that one day those young people will do the same and look back on a life in which they leapt at the opportunities and broke their own records, she said.
FRANKFURT (Reuters) - European satellite launching firm Arianespace said it had called off the launch of two communications satellites seconds before lift-off on Tuesday, citing unspecified problems.
An Ariane 5 heavy-launcher rocket had been due to take off from Europes spaceport in French Guiana, carrying satellite Intelsat 37e for Intelsat and BSAT-4a for manufacturer Space Systems Loral.
Arianespace, majority-owned by a joint venture of Airbus and Safran, offers launches with Ariane 5, Soyuz and Vega rockets and says it has sent into orbit more than half of all telecommunications satellites now in service.
The company said engineers were trying to find out what caused the anomaly in the launch, which was to be the fifth Ariane 5 mission from the Guiana Space Center this year.
During the final seconds of the launch countdown for Arianespace Flight VA239, the checkout process detected an anomaly on the launcher as the Vulcain cryogenic main stage engine was being ignited, Arianespace said in a statement.
It said it would set a new launch date as soon as possible.
Image copyright Cambridge University Botanic Garden Image caption Botanic gardens like this one in Cambridge, UK, are a haven for rare plants

The world's botanic gardens contain about a third of all known plants and help protect 40% of endangered species, a study has found.
Scientists say that with one in five of the world's plants on the brink of extinction, botanic collections hold the key to saving rare plant life.
In the first detailed study of plants grown in botanical gardens, they recorded more than 100,000 species.
Efforts are needed to target some of our rarest plants, they say.
"This is the first time that we have carried out a global assessment to look at the wide range of plants grown, managed and conserved in botanic gardens," said Dr Paul Smith, Secretary General of the charity Botanic Gardens Conservation International.
"So, for the first time we know what we have and, perhaps more importantly, what is missing from botanic gardens."
Tropical plants were under-represented in the inventory of species.
Meanwhile, primitive plants such as mosses were fewer in number compared with exotic specimens such as orchids and lilies.
"Botanic gardens maintain in their living collections and seed banks an astonishing array of plant diversity, " Dr Smith explained.
"We think gardens should be making much more of what they can uniquely grow that no other garden or experts have ever grown before."
Image copyright Botanic Gardens Conservation International Image caption Peridiniya Botanic Garden in Sri Lanka: Tropical plants are under-represented worldwide

About 500 million people visit botanic gardens each year.
As well as being popular visitor attractions, they are a centre of learning and education, and conduct valuable research and conservation work.
The study, published in the journal Nature Plants, identified gaps in the botanic collections of more than 1,000 institutions.
Many botanic gardens are in the Northern Hemisphere, where tropical species are harder to maintain as they need to be grown in heated glasshouses.
Tropical plants are best grown in their country of origin, but there are far fewer facilities in the Southern Hemisphere.
Furthermore, only 10% of global collections are dedicated to threatened species, suggesting botanic gardens could do more to preserve some of the world's most vulnerable plants.
Image copyright Botanic Gardens Conservation International Image caption Gardens By The Bay in Singapore

Dr Samuel Brockington of the University of Cambridge is a curator at the university's own botanic garden and co-researcher of the study.
He said the global network of botanic gardens was our best hope for saving some of the world's most endangered plants.
"Currently, an estimated one-fifth of plant diversity is under threat, yet there is no technical reason why any plant species should become extinct," he said.
"If we do not conserve our plant diversity, humanity will struggle to solve the global challenges of food and fuel security, environmental degradation, and climate change."
Follow Helen on Twitter.
Image copyright University of Queensland/Laurie Beirne Image caption Artwork: Diprotodon were one of a number of giant marsupials that lived in Ice Age Australia

It is being likened to the great migration of wildebeest in Africa.
Scientists have discovered that Australias extinct diprotodon would also make long annual treks across the continent in search of food.
The animal, which was a kind of giant wombat, left tell-tale chemical clues to its behaviour in its teeth.
Research led by the University of Queensland, suggests that the creature would make regular round-trip journeys of up to 200km.
It goes back to that old saying you are what you eat, because the chemicals of the food they consumed became part of their teeth.
But its also true that you are where you ate, especially if you are a plant-eater, because the geochemistry of the soils where plants grow also become fixed into a herbivores tooth, explained Dr Gilbert Price.
Image copyright University of Queensland Image caption Dr Price worked on 300,000-year-old teeth

The marsupial, which stood about 1.8m tall at the shoulder, disappeared just over 40,000 years ago, probably as a response to human hunting pressure and climate change.
Dr Price said no modern marsupial makes an annual migration, although kangaroos will cover large distances on a nomadic basis.
More than a million wildebeest, zebra and antelope make an annual round-trip through the Serengeti-Masai Mara ecosystem that straddles Kenya and Tanzania, to take advantage of the best feeding grounds.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Wilderbeest in Africa on one of nature's great migrations

Dr Price said this extinction event could provide some lessons about other migratory beasts.
What are the implications of losing a major migratory animal like a zebra or wildebeest?
he asked.
Diprotodon was also a big herbivore that would have been capable of eating you out of house and home.
How does taking an animal like that out of the ecosystem impact the vegetation and the numbers and predatory order of other animals?
Diprotodons would have been a food source themselves, and their absence would have far-reaching impacts.
The teeth study is reported in the Royal Society journal Proceedings B.
Image copyright Getty Images

Ministers should tighten the UK's official climate change target - or face the courts, the government's former chief scientist has said.
Prof Sir David King is supporting a legal case forcing ministers to shrink carbon emissions to zero by 2050.
He says the current government goal - an 80% emissions cut by the same date - is too weak to protect the climate.
Ministers have promised more ambitious climate policies in their forthcoming and long-delayed Clean Growth plan.
But Prof King told BBC News the government knew the 80% target cut behind that plan was too weak.
Some 18 months ago, Environment Secretary Andrea Leadsom promised a 100% emissions reduction to keep the UK on track with its obligations under the 2015 Paris climate deal.
But ministers have failed to enshrine that 100% cut within the Climate Change Act.
Potential catastrophe

"This is crazy," Prof King told the BBC.
"The government knows very well what needs to be done - but it isn't doing it.
"If it takes legal action to force ministers to behave properly, then so be it - I'll support it."
Prof King is backing a preliminary legal action by a tiny group, Plan B, run by former government lawyer Tim Crosland.
It argues that Business Secretary Greg Clark is obliged under the act to tighten targets if the science shows it is needed.
This is the basis of the case.
Mr Crosland has written to Mr Clark and says if there is no satisfactory reply after 14 days, he will take the case to the High Court for judicial review.
"The science has clearly hardened since the Climate Change Act was agreed," he said.
"If scientists are telling us our current course of emissions potentially takes us to catastrophe, then to stick to the current course is irrational.
"The best available science tells us the risks of crossing tipping points rise very sharply between 1.5 and 2C.
And that means the UK cutting emissions to zero."
Counter-productive?
His case would be argued in court by Jonathan Crow, Attorney General to Prince Charles, and a former senior Treasury lawyer.
Mr Crosland says his co-claimants are a rabbi "who learned not to ignore a humanitarian crisis"; young people fearing for the future; and a supporter from Mauritius representing island states at risk from rising sea water.
Other groups are similarly frustrated with long delays in the government's climate strategy, and some are also considering legal action.
There are fears, though, that pushing for a zero emissions strategy when the government cannot yet reach its lower target may be counter-productive.
ClientEarth, one of the UK's most successful environment groups over the past decade, has pioneered the use of the courts to deliver environmental policies.
Jonathan Church, a climate lawyer with the group, said: "We hope that Plan B's claim will help draw attention to the urgency of the challenge we face and ensure that our government keeps its eye on the goals agreed in Paris.
"But targets do not on their own reduce emissions."
He added that the focus now should be ensuring that the Climate Change Act fulfils its purpose.
The government said it would consider Plan B's letter and respond in due course, adding: "The UK is a global leader on climate change".
A spokesperson said the forthcoming Clean Growth plan, which will outline how reduce emissions will be reduced, would be "ambitious and robust... and build on the economic opportunities across the country".
Follow Roger on Twitter @rharrabin
Image copyright AIRBUS DS Image caption Radar satellites traditionally are much bigger and much heavier

Australia is to be a launch partner on the UK's innovative new small radar satellite, NovaSAR.
The spacecraft, which will track shipping and forestry change from orbit, is due to launch on an Indian rocket early next year.
Australia's main research organisation, CSIRO, has signed a 10% share in NovaSAR's data.
The deal comes on the heels of an announcement that the country will soon get a national space agency.
This future body will no doubt look to secure many more such collaborations, to enable Australian scientists and entrepreneurs to exploit the latest Earth observation information.
NovaSAR (PDF) has been built by Surrey Satellite Technology Limited in Guildford, in southern England, with the aid of a 21m UK government grant.
Image copyright SSTL Image caption The S-band radar instrument itself has been developed by SSTL's parent, Airbus

The 3m-long platform, which looks like a cheese-grater, is regarded as an "operational demonstrator" - that is to say, it will showcase a capability but with the intention that its data is put to good use to develop services.
Radar works at wavelengths that allow it to pierce cloud to see the surface of the Earth in all weathers, and in darkness.
NovaSAR will use this vision to make forestry assessments in the tropics (frequent cloud) and at high latitude (poor light conditions); to support disaster relief (radar is very good at sensing flood water); and to monitor shipping routes.
This third application is enhanced by the addition of an Automatic Identification System (AIS) sensor onboard the satellite.
All ships over 300 gross tonnes are required to fit AIS transponders that broadcast details about their voyage.
Spotting from orbit those vessels that have their AIS disabled is often a sign of illegal actors, such as smugglers or trawlers attempting to net fish in no-take zones.
Radar plus AIS is seen as something of a killer application in maritime policing.
Australia's Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) will get a 10% share of the tasking and data-acquisition capabilities of NovaSAR.
Dr Dave Williams from CSIRO said the deal represented a significant investment in Australia's space capability.
"The aim is to manage the NovaSAR satellite as a natural extension of the significant role CSIRO already plays in managing a range of national facilities, on behalf of the Australian community of scientists and for the benefit of the nation.
"Because we'll be able to direct the satellite's activity, it provides significant opportunities to support a wide range of existing research, further develop Australia's earth observation data analytics expertise, and create new opportunities in the field of remote sensing."
Dr Williams was the chief executive of the UK Space Agency before taking up his role at CSIRO.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Animation: NovaSAR has the look of a cheese-grater

NovaSAR is trying to address the interest in smaller, lower cost solutions to satellite radar.
Traditionally, these spacecraft have been large, power-hungry beasts that gather imagery which, by its very nature, leads to very big data volumes.
Managing all this in a compact package is challenging.
SSTL, working with its parent company Airbus, has produced what it thinks is one answer: something that is very capable but still compact enough (430kg) to fit on a cheaper rocket.
"We've gone for some specific radar applications, some specific modes," explained Luis Gomes, SSTL's commercial director.
"But we'll aim to investigate other possibilities once we're in orbit.
"We'd like to have a go at radar interferometry, to sense landslides for example.
It wasn't designed for that purpose but we want to see if it's possible," he told BBC News.
A number of companies are building spacecraft that are much smaller even than NovaSAR.
Capella Space (US) has plans for a radar constellation based on cubesats - satellites with bodies that are built from 10cm blocks.
And ICEYE (Finland) is looking to platforms that are in the 100kg class (microsatellites).
The SSTL/CSIRO deal was signed in Adelaide on Tuesday at the International Astronautical Congress.
Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Image copyright BinBin Li Image caption The giant panda has evolved to live on a diet of bamboo

Despite signs that numbers of giant pandas are rising, suitable habitat has shrunk, according to satellite data.
The forests where the panda lives are in worse shape than in 1988, when it was first listed as endangered, scientists say.
Last year, the giant panda was downgraded from endangered to vulnerable on the IUCN Red List.
Habitat loss is the most serious threat to the animal, which is seen as an icon of global extinction efforts.
"What's new in this study is our ability to assess the status of the giant panda by using satellite imagery and then use that information to come up with recommendations of how better to manage this iconic threatened species," said Prof Stuart Pimm, of Duke University, North Carolina, US, who is a researcher on the study.
The news last year that the giant panda had been taken off the endangered list made headlines around the world.
The decision was made because numbers of wild pandas had risen in surveys.
However, with only around 1,800 left in the wild, establishing new reserves and extending existing ones is crucial for the animal's survival.
"I think we now understand we've got to keep an eye on the habitats where pandas live," said Prof Pimm.
"But it also points to the need to try and re-connect isolated panda habitats by building what we call biological corridors."
Shrinking forests

Chinese and US scientists used geographic mapping, remote sensing data and satellite imagery to assess changes across the panda's entire range from 1976 to 2013.
Their study, published in the journal, Nature Ecology & Evolution, suggests that suitable panda habitats have substantially reduced.
Earthquakes, human encroachment, agriculture, road building, tourism and logging of forests have had the effect of dividing the areas where pandas live into ever smaller fragments.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The giant panda is classed as vulnerable to extinction

"Habitat decreased nearly 5% from 1976 to 2001, but has increased since, said Weihua Xu of the Research Center for Eco-Environmental Sciences at the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
"However, the average size of the habitat patches decreased by 23% from 1976 to 2001.
It has increased only slightly since."
Some of the changes in the region are encouraging, such as stopping logging and establishing nature reserves, said Jianguo Liu of Michigan State University.
"But conservation is a dynamic process with humans and nature in a constant push and pull to survive and thrive, so new solutions always are in demand," he added.
The giant panda was once widespread throughout southern and eastern China.
There are now estimated to be about 1,800 giant pandas left in the wild in six mountain ranges in China's Sichuan, Shaanxi and Gansu provinces.
Head of Asian programmes at WWF, John Barker, said pandas are increasingly separated from one another due to developments such as roads, which run through their ranges creating small isolated populations which are unable to meet and breed with each other.
"Creating wildlife-friendly areas and corridors that link these fragmented populations is essential, including finding ways for pandas to move over or under roads," he said.
"If the giant panda is to truly thrive in the wild we need to boost efforts to maintain their habitats, ensure that they are connected and safeguard the future for pandas by making sure that developments are designed responsibly with the lowest possible environment impact."
Follow Helen on Twitter.
Image copyright Copernicus Sentinel data (2017) Image caption Widening gap: The picture contains data gathered on 13 and 16 September

The giant berg A-68 looks finally to be on the move.
Recent weeks have seen it shuffle back and forth next to the Antarctic ice shelf from which it broke away.
But the latest satellite imagery now indicates the near-6,000 sq km block is swinging out into the Weddell Sea.
A wide stretch of clear water has opened up between the berg's southern end and the remaining Larsen shelf structure, suggesting A-68 is set to swing around and head north.
This is the direction the Weddell currents should take the iceberg.
Polar experts expect the trillion-tonne block to essentially bump along the shelf edge until it reaches the great eastward movement of ocean water known as the Antarctic Circumpolar Current.
This would then export what is one of the largest bergs ever recorded out into the South Atlantic.
How far A-68 actually gets along this predicted path is anyone's guess, however.
The berg already shows evidence of fragmentation at its edges.
These bits - they carry the designation A-68b, A-68c, etc - all still float close to their parent.
But in time they will get separated, and it is entirely possible that big segments with deep keels could get anchored in shallow waters and become semi-permanent "ice islands".
A-68 calved during mid-winter and it required radar satellites - such as Europe's Sentinel-1 spacecraft - with their unique ability to pierce cloud and darkness to keep track of developments.
With the return now to longer days in the Antarctic, opportunities are increasingly opening up for high-resolution optical satellites to take a close look at the state of the berg.
And new imagery from the Spanish Deimos-2 spacecraft shows how the initial sharp edges of the block's northern-western corner have been lost.
Image copyright Deimos Imaging, an UrtheCast Company

Scientists are not just looking at the berg; they also continue to monitor the Larsen Ice Shelf.
They are checking to see if its behaviour has changed since the calving.
The shelf is the floating protrusion of glaciers coming off the Antarctic landmass, and the ejection of such a large section of its structure could potentially trigger further fracturing or a change in the speed of ice flow.
So far, however, there is little evidence of either.
When A-68 moves clear of its birth position it will reveal seafloor that probably has not been free of ice cover for 120,000 years - during the peak of the last warm phase in Earth's history known as the Eemian.
The area has already gained protected status from the Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR).
This gives scientists priority access and keeps fisheries activity at bay for a minimum of two years.
Previous research in locations uncovered by departing bergs has found new species.
Expeditions to visit A-68 this coming Antarctic summer season are in the planning stage.
Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The Australian government has committed to creating a national space agency

Australia will establish a national space agency, the government has said.
Although its space industry employs about 11,500 people, Australia is one of the few major developed countries that do not have a space agency.
Industry Minister Michaelia Cash said it was "crucial" that Australia capitalised on the growth of the global space industry.
The move follows a domestic industry review which called for a dedicated body to be established.
"The agency will be the anchor for our domestic co-ordination and the front door for our international engagement," Ms Cash said.
The government is expected to announce further details at the International Astronautical Congress in Adelaide this week.
The conference will be attended by thousands of global space experts, including the heads of other national agencies and private companies.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Why firms are spending millions to beat each other into orbit

The country is largely reliant on overseas nations like the United States for its satellite and earth observation data.
The Space Industry Association of Australia has argued that the country is well placed to expand its space technologies because of its location, large geographical size and relatively low population.
Britain will need to boost its generation of electricity by about a quarter, Scottish Power has estimated.
The energy firm said electric cars and a shift to electric heating could send demand for power soaring.
Its chief executive also said there would have to be a major investment in the wiring necessary to handle rapid charging of car batteries.
Keith Anderson was speaking as the firm reached the milestone of 2,000 megawatts of wind power capacity.
That equates to about an eighth of the British total.
The figure includes Whitelee wind farm, on Eaglesham Moor, south of Glasgow, which has more than 200 turbines.
Believed to be Europe's biggest wind farm, it is capable of generating enough power for all of Glasgow's homes.
Image copyright Thinkstock Image caption Whitelee is believed to be Europe's biggest wind farm

In the past 18 months, the Spanish-owned company has been installing nearly a quarter of the British total, but the pipeline of work is coming to an end.
Attention is turning to offshore wind.
But Mr Anderson told BBC Scotland there would have to be a renewed surge in the building of onshore wind turbines if consumer demand was to be met.
He warned that past experience with technology change had shown consumers could make the move faster than governments or companies expect.
Once the price of electric cars falls to that of petrol or diesel, which it is thought will happen between 2022 and 2025, there could be a rapid shift in buying patterns and electricity usage.
Earlier this month, First Minister Nicola Sturgeon announced a target of shifting from petrol and diesel-fuelled cars to battery power by 2032, while the UK government intends to make that shift by 2040.
'Worst position'

Mr Anderson said: "The worst position for this country to be in and the worst position for customers is that we get huge enthusiasm, people rushing out to buy electric cars because the price has come down, and then we can't allow people to plug them in because we haven't invested in the infrastructure.
"So one of the things we're looking at now is how we plan what has to happen to the distribution system."
The estimate of a 20%-30% increase in demand for electricity comes after years of gradually declining power use, much of that due to growing energy efficiency and the closure of older, energy-intensive industries.
Image copyright Getty Images

At the same time, old power stations - including Scottish Power's coal-burning plants at Longannet in Fife and Cockenzie in East Lothian - have been closed down.
The added challenge of cars is the change in technology from an eight-hour overnight charge to a rapid charge of 15 to 20 minutes.
If several car owners on a residential street plug those in at the same time, the system could not cope.
Mr Anderson said: "The system that takes the wires into the house, down the street, to local businesses - how do we make sure it can cope with that level of demand?
It'll take a long time to plan and deliver."
'Let's keep going'

Heating is the next frontier in the energy revolution, which has barely begun.
In place of gas and oil-fired boilers in each home, electric central heating can be powered by renewable generation.
What we're saying to the politicians, regulators and customers is: let's keep going - this [wind power] has been a huge success Keith Anderson, Scottish Power chief executive

However, it is likely to require not only removal of a boiler, but the replacement of radiators and hot water heating pipes throughout a home.
Mr Anderson said: "What we're saying to the politicians, regulators and customers is: let's keep going - this [wind power] has been a huge success.
"We have been able to develop these projects faster and faster, and to deliver them more efficiently, at much lower cost.
"Keep going, because that will bring costs down and make us more efficient for the future.
"If you stop now, the technology development stops, the innovation stops: the new jobs, the new roles, they all stop.
You stop that for two or three years, and trying to restart it becomes more difficult and more expensive."
Most of the recent onshore wind developments have been in Scotland, focused on the south west.
The UK government has allowed much less onshore wind developing, in response to anti-turbine campaigners.
It has also left onshore wind out of the auctions which offer generators a minimum price for their energy.
These auctions have helped drive down the cost of renewable power, with offshore wind nearly halving in price.
Image copyright Joan Costa Image caption The skeleton of a boy that shattered our view of Neanderthal brain development

A new study shows that Neanderthal brains developed more slowly than ours.
An analysis of a Neanderthal child's skeleton suggests that its brain was still developing at a time when the brains of modern human children are fully formed.
This is further evidence that this now extinct human was not more brutish and primitive than our species.
The research has been published in the journal Science.
Until now it had been thought that we were the only species whose brains developed relatively slowly.
Unlike other apes and more primitive humans, Homo sapiens has an extended period of childhood lasting several years.
This is because it takes time and energy to develop our large brain.
Previous studies of Neanderthal remains indicated that they developed more quickly than modern humans - suggesting that their brains might be less sophisticated.
But a team led by Prof Antonio Rosas of the Museum of Natural Sciences in Madrid found that if anything, Neanderthal brains may have developed more slowly than ours.
"It was a surprise," he told BBC News.
"When we started the study we were expecting something similar to the previous studies."
Image copyright Paleoanthropology Group MNCN-CSIC] Image caption The remains were discovered inside the El Sidrn cave in Asturias, Spain.
Prof Rosas and his team believe they are right and the previous studies are wrong because for the first time they were able to study a relatively complete skeleton of a child at a crucial stage in their development.
It was of a boy, who was nearly seven-and-a-half years old when he died.
His bones were found in the 49,000-year-old site of El Sidrn, in Spain.
The boy's remains are exceptionally well preserved and include a mix of baby and adult teeth, which enabled the team to accurately determine his age.
This brain is estimated to have been 87.5% of the size of an average adult Neanderthal brain upon death.
A modern human child at the same general age would have, on average, a brain that was 95% the size of an adult's.
The researchers also found that some of the small bones forming the boy's backbone were not fused.
In modern humans, these bones tend to fuse by the time children reach the age of six.
Image copyright Joan Costa Image caption The researchers were surprised to discover that Neanderthal brains develop more slowly

According to Prof Rosas, the finding reinforces the idea that Neanderthals were not that different from us.
The brutish picture of Neanderthals is an old one.
In the last few years there has been growing evidence to suggest that they were a distinct human species with some small differences.
Now we can say that their growth pattern is similar to ours, too.
The finding raises the intriguing possibility that the Neanderthals' slightly slower brain development meant that their brains might have been more advanced than ours.
But Prof Rosas prefers a more prosaic interpretation.
"Neanderthals have a larger brain and larger body and so it is logical to think that the brain of the Neanderthal continues to grow for a little longer to allow their brains and bodies to get to their adult size," he explained.
Before this finding, scientists believed that modern humans were the slowest growing species.
Now we know that Neanderthals took slightly longer, suggesting that both species inherited this growth pattern from a now extinct common ancestor.
Follow Pallab on Twitter
Image copyright Science Photo Library Image caption Duck-billed dinosaurs may have been tempted away from a vegetarian diet

The idea of plant-eating dinosaurs having a strict vegetarian diet has been called into question.
New evidence suggests that some dinosaurs snacked on shellfish and insects as well as plant food.
A study of fossilised droppings indicates duck-billed dinosaurs dined on crabs at certain times of the year.
Fossil remains of dinosaur dinners is rare, so this pescatarian diet may have been overlooked in the past.
The popular perception of what dinosaurs ate was simplistic, said Dr Karen Chin of the University of Colorado, Boulder, US, who led the research.
"Plant-eating dinosaurs had more complex diets than we assumed that they had, and these diets included feeding on some animals, including at least crustaceans, and this was more like diets of modern plant-eating birds," she told BBC News.
The new evidence comes from an area of southern Utah that is regarded as a treasure trove of fossils from the Late Cretaceous Period, when dinosaurs were coming to the end of their reign.
Image copyright Science Photo Library Image caption The hadrosaurs were duck-billed dinosaurs that flourished some 80-65 million years ago

Fossilised dinosaur droppings found on the Kaiparowits Plateau give new insights into what was on the menu for dinosaurs.
Fragments of shell and other remains show they consumed crustaceans such as crabs, which likely sheltered in rotting wood.
The dinosaurs probably actively hunted for crustaceans and insects in a "woody stew" rather than swallowing them accidently, the researchers said.
Animal products may have been a vital source of protein, particularly when they were about to lay their eggs.
Plant guzzlers

"This find really breaks the mould for what we expect a plant-eating dinosaur to do," said Dr Steve Brusatte of the University of Edinburgh, UK, who was not connected with the study.
"We think of them as these multi-tonne plant guzzlers, but some of them also indulged in other types of food.
"And I guess we shouldn't be too shocked because that's true of many plant eaters today, they'll ingest other stuff, sometimes accidentally, sometimes to supplement their diet with other nutrients."
The droppings were left by dinosaurs some 75 million years ago on what would then have been a landscape dotted with rivers and ponds.
Duckbilled dinosaurs were common in the area at the time.
The bones and teeth of the reptiles suggest they spent most of their time on land, though close to freshwater, feeding on tough plants such as ferns and conifers.
The discovery, detailed in the journal Scientific Reports suggests other plant-eating dinosaurs may have in fact been omnivorous.
"We'll just have to find more evidence and we're always on the look out for that," said Dr Chin.
Follow Helen on Twitter.
Image copyright JJM/Geograph Image caption The Shiant Islands could be declared free of non-native black rats next year

The calls of a small seabird have been recorded for the first time on a group of islands in The Minch.
Conservationists hope the sound of storm petrels' "churring" is an indication that an effort to eradicate rats on the Shiant Islands is working.
The black rats are not native to the islands off Lewis and are thought to be the descendants of rats that came ashore from shipwrecks in the 1900s.
Storm petrels are not found where there are rats, which eat their eggs.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Storm petrels were recorded for the first time on the islands in the summer

On the Shiants, colonies of puffins, razorbills and guillemots have been in decline, while Manx shearwaters and until now storm petrels have not been found at all.
RSPB Scotland, Scottish Natural Heritage and the Nicolson family, which owns the islands, secured funding to start the rat eradication work in 2015.
They hope it will be possible to declare the islands rat-free next March.
Storm petrels, which are slightly bigger than a sparrow, had been seen flying past the Shiants.
To encourage them to breed on the islands, conservationists played the sound of their calls from a loud speaker.
This summer, real storm petrels' churring was heard and the birds seen at a burrow by conservationists using night vision equipment.
Image copyright Ed Marshall/RSPB Images Image caption Conservationists say storm petrels are vulnerable to rats

Dr Charlie Main, senior project manager for the Shiant Isles Recovery Project, said: "The churring of a storm petrel is very distinctive and we're delighted that it's been recorded on the Shiants this summer.
"While we are still some way off the islands being officially declared rat-free, these calls indicate that all the biosecurity work we're doing to keep these islands predator-free and make them ideal breeding sites for seabirds is paying off."
She added: "The long-term aim is to allow a breeding colony of storm petrels to establish at the Shiants."
Dr Andrew Douse, policy and advice manager in ornithology at Scottish Natural Heritage, said the first recording of the birds was "very welcome".
He said: "Storm petrels only occur on islands without rats, which means that they are very vulnerable to the effects that arise from invasive species such as these.
"The Shiants are an ideal breeding location for storm petrels and hopefully they will go on to become an important stronghold for this species."
Image copyright SPL

Scientists have engineered an antibody that attacks 99% of HIV strains and can prevent infection in primates.
It is built to attack three critical parts of the virus - making it harder for HIV to resist its effects.
The work is a collaboration between the US National Institutes of Health and the pharmaceutical company Sanofi.
The International Aids Society said it was an "exciting breakthrough".
Human trials will start in 2018 to see if it can prevent or treat infection.
Our bodies struggle to fight HIV because of the virus' incredible ability to mutate and change its appearance.
These varieties of HIV - or strains - in a single patient are comparable to those of influenza during a worldwide flu season.
So the immune system finds itself in a fight against an insurmountable number of strains of HIV.
Super-antibodies

But after years of infection, a small number of patients develop powerful weapons called "broadly neutralising antibodies" that attack something fundamental to HIV and can kill large swathes of HIV strains.
Researchers have been trying to use broadly neutralising antibodies as a way to treat HIV, or prevent infection in the first place.
The study, published in the journal Science, combines three such antibodies into an even more powerful "tri-specific antibody".
Dr Gary Nabel, the chief scientific officer at Sanofi and one of the report authors, told the BBC News website: "They are more potent and have greater breadth than any single naturally occurring antibody that's been discovered."
The best naturally occurring antibodies will target 90% of HIV strains.
"We're getting 99% coverage, and getting coverage at very low concentrations of the antibody," said Dr Nabel.
Experiments on 24 monkeys showed none of those given the tri-specific antibody developed an infection when they were later injected with the virus.
Dr Nabel said: "It was quite an impressive degree of protection."
The work included scientists at Harvard Medical School, The Scripps Research Institute, and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
'Exciting'

Clinical trials to test the antibody in people will start next year.
Prof Linda-Gail Bekker, the president of the International Aids Society, told the BBC: "This paper reports an exciting breakthrough.
"These super-engineered antibodies seem to go beyond the natural and could have more applications than we have imagined to date.
"It's early days yet, and as a scientist I look forward to seeing the first trials get off the ground in 2018.
"As a doctor in Africa, I feel the urgency to confirm these findings in humans as soon as possible."
Dr Anthony Fauci, the director of the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said it was an intriguing approach.
He added: "Combinations of antibodies that each bind to a distinct site on HIV may best overcome the defences of the virus in the effort to achieve effective antibody-based treatment and prevention."
Follow James on Twitter.
Image copyright Jessica Thompson Image caption Burials at Mount Hora in Malawi yielded DNA used in the study

DNA from ancient remains has been used to reconstruct thousands of years of population history in Africa.
Researchers sequenced the genomes of 16 individuals who lived between 8,000 and 1,000 years ago.
The data shows how the invention and spread of farming had a major impact on the genes of people in Africa - just as it did in Europe and Asia.
The findings are published in the journal Cell.
The results suggest that populations related to the indigenous people of southern Africa had a wider distribution in the past.
This southern African-like genetic background is found in hunter-gatherers from Malawi and Tanzania in the east of the continent.
These hunters lived between 8,100 and 1,400 years ago.
But the later spread of farmers from western Africa had a major impact on the genetic make-up of people in surrounding regions.
Further DNA analysis revealed the hunter-gatherers in eastern Africa had mixed extensively with the incoming farmers.
The researchers estimate that the mixing occurred between 8,000 and 4,000 years ago.
The study also found possible evidence of migration into Africa from the Middle East.
About 38% of the ancestry of a 3,100-year-old livestock herder from Tanzania was related to ancient farmers from the Levant region.
"These results document a prehistoric population landscape that we didn't know about," said co-author Pontus Skoglund, from Harvard Medical School, US.
"They document how farmer and herder migrations swept through eastern and southern Africa."
The researchers also found tentative evidence of adaptive evolution - changes driven by environmental pressure - for genes involved in taste in the ancient individuals.
These taste receptors are known to be important for detecting and learning to avoid poisonous plants.
Image copyright Fredex8

The UK and US have reached a deal to develop a special relationship for science.
An agreement between the two countries aims to make it easier for researchers to travel, collaborate and share facilities.
US science bodies are said to be "eager" to take advantage of research opportunities lost because of Brexit.
The deal is part of government efforts to develop research collaborations outside the EU.
BBC News revealed earlier this year when the deal was being negotiated that the aim was to develop a legal framework to allow a freer flow of people, research grants and tariff-free exchange of equipment between the two countries.
Possible strategic areas of collaboration include:

synthetic biology

information technology

GM research

Image copyright SANGER CENTRE Image caption America and Britain were key partners on the project to decode the human genome

The agreement, signed by the Science Minister Jo Johnson and his US counterparts, states that national laws will "seek to facilitate" freer movement of people and scientific equipment.
Speaking in Washington, Mr Johnson said that the deal would help to ensure that the UK would maintain its global lead in many areas of research.
"Our continued collaboration with the US on science and innovation is beneficial to both of our nations, and through this agreement we are sharing expertise to enhance our understanding of many important topics that have the potential to be world changing," the minister added.
The impetus for the deal came following the UK referendum result to leave the European Union.
British universities, in collaboration with small businesses, receive 850m in research grants each year from membership of the EU's research programmes.
EU membership also makes it easy to form collaborations.
There are fears that much of the funding and collaborative work with EU scientists will be in jeopardy once the UK leaves the EU, despite recent assurances from the Brexit Secretary, David Davis, that his aim is to foster even closer scientific relationships with the EU.
Prof Venki Ramakrishnan, president of the Royal Society, welcomed the deal with the US but remains concerned that Mr Davis' aspiration to have closer collaboration with the EU lacks any detail on how to achieve his aim.
"This agreement sends a welcome message that UK science remains outward looking.
International research collaboration allows the rapid exchange of new ideas and expertise and it also allows us to address problems that no one country can on its own.
It is an essential part of modern science," he said.
Image copyright NSF/LIGO Image caption A wider partnership could give UK researchers even more access to US facilities

British researchers are being encouraged to foster links with other nations.
While most if not all research leaders are still dismayed by the referendum result - some are beginning to see advantages for greater collaboration with the US.
For example, there is scope for greater freedom in research in synthetic biology and information technology because biotechnology and privacy regulation is less restrictive outside the EU.
For their part, US science bodies see Brexit as an opportunity for them.
US research leaders are anxious that American research groups fill any shortfall left by the UK's departure from the EU, rather than their rivals in India and China.
Mr Johnson announced that the government had pledged 65m to participate in a US-based and led international project to learn more about sub-atomic particles called neutrinos.
He said he hoped it would be the first of many more UK research collaborations with the US.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Pallab Ghosh looks at how the neutrino beam would be fired underground

The UK-led Dune project involves 150 scientists from 14 British universities and two laboratories run by the UK's Science and Technologies Facilities Council participating in a US-based effort involving 1,000 scientists from 31 countries.
The UK was likely to participate in Dune before the referendum result, but the project received greater support from ministers subsequently because it fitted well with the government's narrative to reassure the British scientific community that Brexit would free them to take up new opportunities outside the EU.
Echoing that message Sir Mark Walport, currently the government's chief scientific adviser and soon to be chief executive of UK Research and Innovation, the body that will oversee funding of civil government research, said that the agreement sent a "clear signal that UK researchers are outward looking and ready to work with the best talent wherever that may be".
"UK Research and Innovation is looking forward to extending partnerships in science and innovation around the world," he added.
Follow Pallab on Twitter
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Barn owls rely on their hearing to hunt

Barn owls keep their acute sense of hearing into old age, scientists have discovered.
Previously, starlings have been found to have this ability, suggesting birds are protected from age-related hearing loss.
Understanding more about the "ageless ears" of barn owls could help develop new treatments for human hearing problems.
Birds are able to naturally repair damage to the inner ear.
Georg Klump of the University of Oldenburg, Germany, a researcher on the study, said owls keep their hearing into very old age.
"Birds can repair their ears like (humans) can repair a wound," he said.
"Humans cannot re-grow the sensory cells of the ears but birds can do this."
It appears that humans lost these regenerative abilities at some point in evolution.
Like all mammals, people commonly suffer from hearing loss in old age.
By the age of 65, humans can expect to lose more than 30 dB in sensitivity at high frequencies.
Commenting on the study, Dr Stefan Heller of Stanford University School of Medicine, said work was underway to investigate differences between birds and mammals.
"To truly utilise this knowledge, we need to conduct comparative studies of birds and mammals that aim to find the differences in regenerative capacity, a topic that is actively pursued by a number of laboratories worldwide," he said.
The research, published in the journal, Royal Society Proceedings B, was carried out on seven captive barn owls.
The birds were trained to fly to a perch to receive a food reward in response to sounds.
Even the oldest owl, which reached the ripe old age of 23, showed no signs of age-related hearing loss.
Barn owls typically only live to the age of three or four in the wild.
The birds rely on their hearing to hunt prey at night.
Follow Helen on Twitter.
Image copyright Kathy Niakan Image caption The genetic machinery needed to modify the DNA is injected into the embryo

The blueprint for life - DNA - has been altered in human embryos for the first time in the UK.
The team at the Francis Crick Institute are unravelling the mysteries of the earliest moments of life.
Understanding what happens after a sperm fertilises an egg could lead to ways of improving IVF or explain why some women miscarry.
The embryos were modified shortly after fertilisation and allowed to develop for seven days.
The researchers are exploring one of the most astounding of transformations.
We have all journeyed from a single fertilised egg to a human being - built from myriad different tissues ranging from bone to those needed to read this page.
The first few steps on that journey are as critical as they are poorly understood.
Image copyright Kathy Niakan Image caption The embryo divides and develops from a single fertilised egg (top left) to a blastocyst (bottom right)

Breakthroughs in manipulating DNA have allowed the team at the Crick to turn off a gene - a genetic instruction - suspected to be of vital importance.
The easiest way of working out how something works is to remove it and see what happens.
So the researchers used the gene-editing tool Crispr-Cas9 to scour the billions of letters of genetic code, find their genetic target and break the DNA to effectively disable it.
They were targeting a gene.
You are unlikely to have heard of it, but OCT4 is a superstar in early embryo development.
Its complete role is not understood but it acts like an army general issuing commands to keep development on track.
The researchers used 41 embryos that had been donated by couples who no longer needed them for IVF.
After performing the genetic modification, the team could watch how the embryos developed without OCT4.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption In a first for UK scientists, human embryos have been genetically modified.
Over the course of the first seven days, a healthy, normal embryo goes from one cell to about 200.
It also goes through the first steps of organising itself and handing out specialised jobs to different cells.
The embryo forms a hollow sphere called a blastocyst, with some cells destined to go on to form the placenta, some the yolk sac and others, ultimately, us.
But without OCT4 the blastocyst cannot form.
It tries - but implodes in on itself.
From the embryo's perspective it is a disaster but for scientists it has given unprecedented insight.
Image copyright Kathy Niakan Image caption The cells coloured green in the blastocyst have high levels of OCT4 and are the ones that go on to form the human body

It is the first time human embryos have been edited to answer questions about fundamental biology.
Dr Kathy Niakan, a group leader at the Crick in London, told the BBC: "When it seemed it was working we were quite excited about the possibility that this would open up.
"This is basic research which is providing us with a foundation of knowledge about early human development."
By deepening understanding of the earliest moments in life, it could help explain what goes wrong in infertility.
During IVF, of 100 fertilised eggs, fewer than 50 reach the blastocyst stage, 25 implant into the womb and only 13 develop beyond three months.
This study alone, published in the journal Nature, cannot explain what is going wrong or why some women miscarry.
But by interrogating all the genes suspected of playing a role in our inception, it could lead to new advances.
Image copyright crick institute Image caption Dr Kathy Niakan in the Crick laboratories where the embryos were modified

Dr Niakan told the BBC: "If we knew the key genes for an embryo to develop successfully that would, I would hope in the future, lead to improvements in IVF technology and give us really important insights into why some pregnancies fail."
One option for IVF is to have a better way of testing which embryos are going to be successful.
Or it may be possible to boost embryos during IVF by growing them in a different culture media - a fertiliser for fertilised eggs.
Ethical debate

These experiments have been legal since 2008 in the UK, where it is possible to manipulate such embryos for 14 days as long as they are not implanted.
But while this application of the technology is answering fundamental questions of science, other research groups are trying to remove genes that cause disease.
That is provoking deep ethical debate.
Dr Sarah Chan, a bioethicist at the University of Edinburgh, told the BBC: "I don't think this study should raise any ethical concerns.
"It is very clear that the aim of the research was basic science and that there was never any intention to create genetically modified human beings.
"That said if we could one day use gene editing in human embryos for medical purposes, the potential benefits could be huge, but before we took such a step we would want to make sure that we'd had a really robust and wide-ranging public dialogue on all of the ethical issues involved."
Dr Rob Buckle, the chief science officer at the UK Medical Research Council, said: "Genome editing technologies are having a game-changing effect on our ability to understand the function of critical human genes.
"As genome editing techniques develop it's vital that this work continues within a robust yet adaptable regulatory framework so that its full potential can be realised in a scientific, ethical and legally rigorous way."
Follow James on Twitter.
Image copyright Colin Richards / UHI Image caption Ring of Brodgar is a famous Orkney site

Rivalries in Orkney more than 4,500 years ago led to competition between communities including over how people were buried, according to new research.
Scientists were able to gather much more precise estimates of the timing and duration of events in the period around 3200-2500 BC by examining more than 600 radiocarbon dates.
The study challenges many previously-held ideas about Neolithic Orkney.
The study has been published in the journal Antiquity.
It was led by Prof Alex Bayliss from Historic England, with Prof Colin Richards of the University of the Highlands and Islands in Kirkwall as co-author.
It is part of a wider project called The Times of Their Lives.
Ritual clues

The study concludes that seemingly rapid changes in settlements and monuments indicate that there were rivalries and tension between social groups.
This was played out in how they buried their dead and in their communal gatherings and rituals.
The study covered famous Orkney sites including Skara Brae and Maeshowe.
Key dates indicated by the study

Orkney was probably first colonised in 3600 BC

Settlement peaked in the period 3100-2900 BC

There was a phase of decline 2800-2600 BC, measured by the number of stone houses in use

Settlement resumed in 2600-2300 BC, and it could have been about this time that the Ring of Brodgar itself was erected.
Prof Bayliss said: "This study shows that new statistical analysis of the large numbers of radiocarbon dates that are now available in British archaeology really changes what we can know about our pasts.
"People in the Neolithic made choices, just like us, about all sorts of things - where to live, how to bury their dead, how to farm, where and when to gather together - and those choices are just beginning to come into view through archaeology.
"It's an exciting time to be an archaeological scientist."
Image copyright Colin Richards / UHI

Prof Richards said: "Our study shows how much remains to be discovered in Orkney about the Neolithic period, even though it may appear well known."
Prof Alasdair Whittle of Cardiff University is the lead investigator for The Times of Their Lives.
Prof Whittle said: "Visitors come from all over the world to admire the wonderfully preserved archaeological remains of Orkney, in what may seem a timeless setting.
"Our study underlines that the Neolithic past was often rapidly changing, and that what may appear to us to be enduring monuments were in fact part of a dynamic historical context."
Image copyright AFP Image caption Renewable energy in Nicaragua

The 2015 Paris agreement's ambitious goal of limiting global warming to 1.5C remains within reach, a study suggests.
The study is one of several to address the "carbon budget", which - among other things - determines how much CO2 the planet can emit and still reach a given limit for global warming.
It indicates the 2015 target, perceived by some as tough, could be met with very stringent emissions cuts.
It used computer models that project climate behaviour into the future.
The aim of the Paris deal was "holding the increase in global average temperature to well below 2C above pre-industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit temperature increase to 1.5C."
But scientists admit they were taken by surprise by the ambition of the 1.5C figure.
The results of the work with computer models have been published in Nature Geoscience.
This type of work necessarily contains uncertainties regarding the way the Earth's climate will respond in future and how quickly societies can move away from fossil fuel use.
But the study authors say: "Pursuing 'efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5C' is not chasing a geophysical impossibility".
Co-author Michael Grubb, from University College London, said: "This paper shows that the Paris goals are within reach, but clarifies what the commitment to 'pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5C' really implies."
Those commitments would require strengthening the nationally determined contributions (NDCs) - the pledges to cut emissions contained in the Paris agreement.
Previous estimates of the remaining 1.5C carbon budget, based on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's (IPCC) Fifth Assessment of the climate, were around four times lower.
But unlike those figures, which relied on one line of evidence, the new study uses multiple approaches to examine the same question, arriving at a rather different result.
Co-author Prof Pierre Friedlingstein, from the University of Exeter, said: "This is very good news for the achievability of the Paris targets."
Prof Myles Allen, another author, from the University of Oxford, told BBC News: "In the main body of the IPCC assessment, what it would take to meet a 1.5C goal wasn't assessed in any detail.
To be honest, it wasn't thought to be the policy priority at the time.
"Perhaps it should have been, but that was the view of the academic community then.
But the ambition of Paris caught a lot of people by surprise."
Analysis by David Shukman, BBC Science Editor:

The climate models are exaggerating.
The predictions are too alarmist.
The Tuvaluans and other islanders are safer than we thought.
These are among the conclusions that some might reach from this latest work.
In reality, nothing is quite that straightforward.
The models are simulated approximations of possible futures.
Inevitably they are going to be at least slightly adrift of reality, either in the amount of warming or its timing.
They come with caveats and margins of error.
In many ways, it's remarkable that these computer constructs are even roughly on track.
And models designed to come up with very broad potential outcomes for the end of the century may not be fine-tuned enough to give more detailed forecasts year-by-year.
The authors themselves are anxious that their research is not misunderstood.
The need for urgent action to reduce emissions is unchanged, they say.
It's just that the most ambitious of the Paris Agreement targets is not as unachievable as many once thought, that there is time to act, though the task remains a monumental one.
Myles Allen added: "For a two in three chance of keeping temperatures within 1.5C, we'd have to reduce emissions in a straight line to zero from where we are now over the next 40 years.
"It's possible, but extremely challenging.
So if people are saying: can we now relax?
That's not the right message to take at all."
Different take

Scientists agree urgent action will be needed to tackle the effects of rapid temperature increase over the next century.
But a study earlier this year in the journal Nature Climate Change suggested the allowable carbon budget had probably been overestimated.
It said the "pre-industrial baseline" used to benchmark present day warming was probably older than the IPCC had assumed.
Therefore, the degree of warming since that baseline was probably greater than had been believed.
On Twitter, one of the authors of that report, Prof Michael Mann, said the latest research in Nature Geoscience, "doesn't account for [the] pre-industrial baseline issue we examined".
He added: "There is some debate about [the] precise amount of committed warming if we cease emitting carbon immediately.
We're probably very close to 1.5C."
Meanwhile, another paper in Nature Geoscience, by Gunnar Myhre, from the Center for International Climate and Environmental Research, in Oslo, and colleagues, suggests the greenhouse effect caused by human-induced CO2 emissions is now half-way to doubling compared with pre-industrial conditions.
Although the concentrations themselves have not yet reached the halfway mark, this is being described as an iconic watermark.
Follow Paul on Twitter.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The large and the small are most at risk of extinction, on land and in water

The biggest and the smallest of the world's animals are most at risk of dying out, according to a new analysis.
Size matters when it comes to extinction risk, with vertebrates in the so-called "Goldilocks zone" - not too big and not too small - winning out, say scientists.
Action is needed to protect animals at both ends of the scale, they say.
Heavyweights are threatened mainly by hunting, while featherweights are losing out to pollution and logging.
"The largest vertebrates are mostly threatened by direct killing by humans," said a team led by Prof Bill Ripple of Oregon State University in Corvallis, US.
"Whereas the smallest species are more likely to have restricted geographic ranges - an important predictor of extinction risk - and be threatened by habitat degradation."
Image copyright Jurgen Leckie Image caption The great hammerhead shark is under threat from illegal fishing

The research adds to evidence that animals are dying out on such a scale that a sixth extinction is considered under way.
This has prompted efforts to determine the key drivers of extinction risk.
One clue is body size.
Research on birds and mammals has shown that those with larger bodies are more likely to go extinct.
Yet, when the researchers made a data base of thousands of birds, mammals, fish, amphibians and reptiles at risk of extinction, they found disproportionate losses at the large and small ends of the scale.
"Surprisingly, we found that not only the largest of all vertebrate animal species are most threatened, but the very tiniest ones are also highly threatened with extinction," Prof Ripple told BBC News.
Image copyright Dave Young Image caption Warty swamp frog: This frog is believed to be in decline across much of its range

Large charismatic animals, such as elephants, rhinos and lions have long been the target of protection efforts.
However, fish, birds, reptiles and amphibians that are the giants of their kind, such as the whale shark, Somali ostrich and Chinese giant salamander, tend to be overlooked.
Meanwhile, small species at risk - such as frogs and shrews - receive very little attention.
"I think, for the smallest species, first of all we need to bring higher awareness to them, because the larger ones get a lot of attention, but the smaller ones get very little," said Prof Ripple.
In the study, researchers from the US, UK, Switzerland and Australia compared body mass and extinction risk for more than 25,000 vertebrate species.
Of these, around 4,000 are threatened with extinction, as assessed by the Red List of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature.
Vertebrates with the smallest and the largest bodies were found to be most at risk of disappearing, whether they were on land or living in oceans, streams or rivers.
Image copyright R Hutterer Image caption The Canarian shrew is a tiny endangered mammal living only on the Canary Islands

Threats facing the heaviest included:

Regulated and unregulated fishing

Hunting and trapping for food, trade or medicines

The lightest were mainly at risk from:

Pollution of lakes, streams and rivers

Farming

Logging of forests

Development.
Image copyright Factcatdog Image caption The Bavarian pine vole is thought to be critically endangered

The researchers say that while different approaches are needed for the conservation of large versus small species, there is an urgent need to step up efforts for both.
"Ultimately, reducing global consumption of wild meat is a key step necessary to reduce negative impacts of human hunting, fishing, and trapping on the world's vertebrates," they write in the journal, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, which published the study.
"Indeed, based on our findings, human activity seems poised to chop off both the head and tail of the size distribution of life."
Extinction can be a natural process, affecting a handful of species each year.
However, estimates suggest the world is now losing species at hundreds of times the "background" rate.
Co-researcher Thomas Newsome of the University of Sydney in Australia said for large animals lessening the negative impacts of hunting, fishing and trapping was key.
"But it's ultimately slowing the human population growth rate that will be the crucial long-term factor in limiting extinction risks to many species," he said.
Follow Helen on Twitter.
Image copyright Wildlife Justice Commission

Criminal networks smuggling rhino horn out of Africa are turning it into jewellery to evade its detection in airports, an investigation has found.
Wildlife trade monitoring network Traffic revealed an "emerging trend" of making and smuggling beads, bracelets and bangles and rhino horn powder.
The lead investigator told BBC News the trade in rhino horn was now "morphing" into a market for luxury items.
At least 7,100 rhinos are estimated to have been killed in Africa since 2007.
Today, about 25,000 of the animals remain.
Julian Rademeyer from Traffic explained that the production of rhino horn "trinkets" mirrored some of the patterns seen in the trade in ivory.
"It's very worrying," he told BBC News.
"Because if someone's walking through the airport wearing a necklace made of rhino horn, who is going to stop them?
"Police are looking for a piece of horn and whole horns."
Status symbol

The primary destinations for smuggled rhino horn remain the same; the largest markets are in China and Vietnam.
But this investigation also found that smuggling routes constantly changed and adapted, becoming more complex in order to avoid countries and airports where law enforcement resources were being focused.
This shift in how horn is processed before it is moved could make it more difficult to detect.
"This is quite a preliminary assessment," explained Mr Rademeyer, "but it's vital that there's information sharing about these new trends - particularly with law enforcement."
He added that the market for medicinal rhino horn - believed by many to be a cure for a range of illnesses, from rheumatism to cancer - seemed to have "reduced somewhat".
But owning rhino horn - particularly for wealthy men in Vietnam - is also seen as a status symbol.
"It's about power - about showing off your wealth," said Mr Rademeyer.
"It's been called the Ferrari factor - having something says you are wealthy and that you're untouchable [by the law]."
Image copyright TRAFFIC

Susie Offord-Woolley, managing director of the charity Save the Rhino International, said this kind of information was "essential" in order that law enforcement officers could be trained to identify rhino horn jewellery.
"The fact they're carving [the horn] up now means these gangs are getting more concerned about security, and that's a good sign," she added.
At the current rate of poaching, Save the Rhino says that rhinos could be extinct in the wild within the next 10 years.
"That's what we're all trying to avoid," said Ms Offord-Woolley.
And while this is a fight to save a species, she added, "this also affects so many people".
She added: "In last 10 years, 1,000 rangers have been killed in Africa while on patrol protecting rhinos.
"So this is an issue for people's lives, as well."
Follow Victoria on Twitter
Image copyright AFP Image caption Scientists are emphasising that the big cats' new status does not mean they are safe from extinction

Has the chilling threat of extinction worn off at last for the long-endangered snow leopard?
Not exactly - but the iconic big cats' conservation status has been improved from "endangered" to "vulnerable".
The decision was announced by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) - the global standard for assessing extinction risk.
Experts have warned that the species still faces serious threats from poaching and habitat destruction.
The elegant yet elusive creatures, which live in the mountains of central Asia, were first listed as endangered by the IUCN in 1972.
The status change followed a three-year assessment process by five international experts.
Dr Tom McCarthy, who runs the Snow Leopard Programme at big cat charity Panthera, was one of them.
"To be considered 'endangered,' there must be fewer than 2,500 mature snow leopards and they must be experiencing a high rate of decline," he explained.
"Both are now considered extremely unlikely, which is the good news, but it does not mean that snow leopards are 'safe' or that now is a time to celebrate.
"The species still faces 'a high risk of extinction in the wild', and is likely still declining - just not at the rate previously thought."
Image copyright AFP/Getty Images Image caption A baby snow leopard pictured at the Tierpark zoo in Berlin

Being classed as "vulnerable" means a species has under 10,000 breeding animals left, with a population decline of at least 10% over three generations.
The Snow Leopard Trust, which aims to protect the big cat through community projects, strongly opposes the status change.
It plans to challenge the decision with the IUCN.
"We believe it could have serious consequences for the species," it wrote in a blog post.
Snow leopard researchers believe the species' decline may have been slowed by conservation projects - including some to protect farm animals from the predators, which are sometimes killed in revenge for livestock losses.
The number of protected areas within the snow leopards' habitat has also increased significantly in recent decades.
Snow leopard stats

The rarely-sighted cats live in the craggy peaks of central Asia - including the Himalayas, and Russia's remote Altai mountains

Their habitat covers more than 1.8 million sq km / 694,980 sq miles, across 12 countries

Scientists say they are threatened by poaching for their fur, infrastructure developments, and climate change

Usually found at elevations of 3,000-4,500m (11,480-14,760ft)

Solitary creatures, they usually hunt at dawn and dusk and are able to kill prey up to three times their own weight

Mostly feed on wild animals, but will also prey on livestock

Their spotted coats change with the seasons - from a thick, white fur to keep them warm and camouflaged in winter, to a fine yellow-grey coat in summer

Retaliatory killings by farmers are not uncommon, but are rarely reported
Image copyright Reuters Image caption The Paris deal commits the signatories to keeping rising global temperatures "well below" 2C above pre-industrial levels

The US has insisted it will leave the Paris climate accord, despite reports that it may be softening its stance.
Following a meeting of environment ministers on Saturday, the EU climate commissioner, Miguel Arias Canete, said Trump officials had indicated the US would either stay in the 2015 accord or review its terms.
But the White House insisted there had been "no change" in the US position.
In June President Donald Trump said the US would withdraw from the deal.
He said it was part of his "solemn duty to protect America" and he would seek a new deal that would not disadvantage US businesses.
But opponents say withdrawing from the accord is an abdication of US leadership on a key global challenge.
The Paris agreement commits the US and 187 other countries to keeping rising global temperatures "well below" 2C above pre-industrial levels and "endeavour to limit" them even more, to 1.5C.
Only Syria and Nicaragua did not sign up to the deal.
What did Trump originally announce in June?
Speaking in the White House Rose Garden, he characterised the Paris agreement as a deal that aimed to hobble, disadvantage and impoverish the US.
He claimed the agreement would cost the US 6.5 million jobs and $3tn (2.2tn) in lost GDP - while rival economies like China and India were treated more favourably.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Trump: The world won't laugh any more at US

"In order to fulfil my solemn duty to protect America and its citizens, the United States will withdraw from the Paris climate accord... but begin negotiations to re-enter either the Paris accord or a really entirely new transaction on terms that are fair to the United States," he said.
During his visit to France in July, however, Mr Trump hinted that the US could shift its position on the deal - but did not elaborate.
"Something could happen with respect to the Paris accord... We'll see what happens."
What is now being reported?
On Saturday, the Wall Street Journal quoted Mr Arias as saying that Trump administration officials said the US would not pull out of the agreement, and were offering to re-engage in the deal.
The WSJ said the shift in the position came at a meeting of environment ministers from about 30 countries at a gathering in Montreal, Canada.
That meeting was attended by a US observer.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Matt McGrath explains why we should care about climate change

The US "stated that they will not renegotiate the Paris Accord, but they [will] try to review the terms on which they could be engaged under this agreement," Mr Canete said.
He said that "there would be a meeting on the sidelines of next week's UN General Assembly with American representatives "to assess what is the real US position", according to the AFP news agency.
"It's a message which is quite different to the one we heard from President Trump in the past," Mr Canete added.
At the same time, Chilean Environment Minister Marcelo Mena tweeted (in Spanish): "I was in the meeting, and the [US] negotiator effectively did not close the door on continuing in the agreement, and ruled out looking for a new agreement."
But in a statement later on Saturday, White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said: "There has been no change in the United States' position on the Paris agreement,

"As the president has made abundantly clear, the United States is withdrawing unless we can re-enter on terms that are more favourable to our country."
How could this change things?
Bloomberg reported that the US is "no longer seeking to withdraw from the pact and then renegotiate it, but rather wants to re-engage with the Paris Agreement from within".
While the White House insists its stance has not changed, deciding not to withdraw from the Paris deal and instead focus on negotiating while remaining a signatory would represent a significant about-turn.
The Los Angeles Times said staying in the Paris deal would be "one of the most controversial" reversals of the Trump presidency.
It would also risk angering Mr Trump's more conservative supporters at a time he is facing criticism for engaging with Democratic leaders, the liberal magazine Mother Jones wrote.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption "Long live Cassini" - the project team says farewell

The American-led Cassini space mission to Saturn has just come to a spectacular end.
Controllers had commanded the probe to destroy itself by plunging into the planet's atmosphere.
It survived for just over a minute before being broken apart.
Cassini had run out of fuel and Nasa had determined that the probe should not be allowed simply to wander uncontrolled among Saturn and its moons.
The loss of signal from the spacecraft occurred pretty close to the prediction.
Here at mission control, at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) in Pasadena, California, the drop-off was timed at 04:55 PDT (11:55 GMT; 12:55 BST).
How the last hours unfolded

Nasa's Earl Maize addressed fellow controllers: "Congratulations to you all.
This has been an incredible mission, an incredible spacecraft and you're all an incredible team.
I'm going to call this the end of mission.
Project manager off the net."
The statement brought restrained applause and some comforting embraces.
The loss of signal indicated that the probe was tumbling wildly in the planet's gases.
Travelling downwards at over 120,000km/h, it could have survived the violence for no more than about 45 seconds before being torn to pieces.
Incineration in the heat and pressure of the plunge was inevitable - but Cassini still managed to despatch home some novel data on the chemical composition of Saturn's atmosphere.
Cassini: A mission of 'astonishing discovery'

Sorry, your device is unsupported.
Tap To Progress

Swipe to go back Click Arrows To Progress



Loading .
Tap To Progress Images: Nasa, Kongle Go back to start

And so ends one of the most successful space missions in history.
In its thirteen years at Saturn, Cassini has transformed our understanding of the sixth planet from the Sun.
It has watched monster storms encircle the globe; it witnessed the delicate interplay of ice particles move through the planet's complex ring system; and it revealed extraordinary new insights on the potential habitability of Saturn's moons.
Titan and Enceladus were the standout investigations.
The former is a bizarre place where liquid methane rains from an orange sky and runs into huge lakes.
Cassini put a small European robot called Huygens on Titan's surface in 2005.
It returned a remarkable image of pebbles that had been smoothed and rounded by the action of that flowing methane.
Cassini also spied what are presumed to be volcanoes that spew an icy slush and vast dunes made from a plastic-like sand.
On Enceladus, the observations were no less stunning.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption "Where Cassini took its final plunge": Linda Spilker explains the last images

Image copyright NASA Image caption Controllers' screens: The loss of signal was indicated by the absence of a green spike (right)

This moon was seen to spurt water vapour into space from cracks at its south pole.
The H2O came from an ocean held beneath the icy shell of Enceladus.
When Cassini flew through the water plumes, it showed that conditions in the sub-surface ocean were very probably suitable for life.
Today, scientists are already talking about how they can go back with another, more capable probe to investigate this idea further.
Image copyright NASA/JPL-CALTECH/SSI/JASON MAJOR Image caption Cassini's cameras were switched off for the last few hours leading to the plunge

A great many of those researchers have been gathered this week at the nearby campus of the California Institute of Technology.
They watched a feed from the control room at JPL on giant screens.
Jonathan Lunine, from Cornell University at Ithaca, New York, spoke for many when he said: "I feel sad but I've felt sad the whole week; we knew this was going to happen.
And Cassini performed exactly as she was supposed to and I bet there is some terrific data on the ground now about Saturn's atmosphere."
And Linda Spilker, the Nasa Cassini project scientist, added: "When I look back on the Cassini mission I see a mission that was running a 13-year marathon of scientific discovery.
And this last orbit was just the last lap.
And so we stood in celebration of successfully completing the race.
And I know I stood there with a mixture of tears and applause."
Although the probe has gone its science lives on.
It has acquired a huge amount of data that will keep researchers busy for decades to come.
A lot of it has barely even been assessed.
"Linda Spliker and I were joking earlier that those last few seconds of the Cassini mission - our first 'taste' of the atmosphere of Saturn - might be a number of PhD theses for students to come," observed Michael Watkins, the director of JPL.
"So, even in those last few seconds, it will continue its re-writing of the textbooks."
Image copyright NASA/JPL-CALTECH/SSI Image caption Pictures of Titan were pulled off the probe's memory before the plunge

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Why scientists are so excited about Saturn's icy moon Enceladus

Saturn's moons: The strange and the wonderful

Image copyright NASA/JPL-CALTECH/SSI

Cassini has photographed some of Saturn's 62 moons: the two-tone Iapetus (1) with its walnut-like equatorial ridge; Mimas (2), which has a giant crater that instantly makes everyone think of the "Death Star" from the Star Wars movies; Hyperion (3), which displays clusters of bizarre pock marks akin to a sponge or wasps' nest; Atlas (4), which resembles a flying saucer; the potato-like Prometheus (5); and Pan (6), which has a shape that would not look out of place in a ravioli dish.
Image copyright NASA/JPL-CALTECH/SS Image caption A last look at Enceladus going over the northern limb of Saturn

Image copyright NASA/JPL-CALTECH/SSI Image caption Also in the end group of images was this fabulous shot of the rings

The Cassini-Huygens mission is a joint endeavour of Nasa, and the European and Italian space agencies.
The BBC has plenty of coverage of the ending of the mission on both TV and radio.
Inside Science ran a preview of the climax on Radio 4.
A Horizon documentary will also review the mission and the final hours in a special programme to be broadcast on Monday 18 September at 21:00 BST on BBC Two.
And you can still watch the Sky At Night programme Cassini: The Gamechanger on the iPlayer.
There is currently a problem with an interactive element on this page.
Please try loading this page again in a little while.
Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Image copyright RHS/Mike Sleigh Image caption Bright blue berries on the shrub, harlequin glorybower

Berries are appearing on plants and hedgerows early this year because of the unusual weather patterns.
The combination of a warm, dry spring, followed by July and August rains, has led to a plethora of berries, according to horticulturists.
"Berries are a vital part of gardens and wildlife, and things have come together this year to make an abundant and beautiful crop," said Guy Barter, chief horticulturist at the Royal Horticultural Society (RHS).
Plants that are already bearing berries include spindle bushes (Euonymus) and firethorn (Pyracantha), while crab apples are also ripening early.
The fruits are likely to coincide with the appearance of autumn colour on leaves.
Image copyright Anna Brockman/RHS Image caption Skimmia japonica: The glossy green fruit ripen to bright red in autumn

Image caption Firethorn (Pyracantha)

"At some stage, the autumn colours will form and you will get these wonderful colour combinations of reds, blacks, yellows and purples - something to look forward to," he added.
Trevor Dines of the charity, Plantlife, said there have been near-perfect conditions for good fruit in our hedgerows this year.
The dry warm spring encouraged pollinating bees, wasps and flies to be out at peak flowering times in April and May.
Then, the warm, wet summer was perfect for fruit development, with water around to swell the berries.
Meanwhile, autumn colour is also on display in some areas.
"With the return to wetter conditions over summer, it's been a bit of an extended growing season and so it's not surprising that we're now seeing fruit set and autumn colours arriving three to five weeks earlier than normal," said Dr Dines.
"Oak trees in north Wales are already starting to turn colour - you'd normally not see that until late October."
Image copyright RHS Image caption Berries can be seen on many plants at RHS Wisley in Surrey

Berries are a valuable source of food for wildlife, particularly birds.
Thrushes, blackbirds, redwings and fieldfares feast on berries throughout the winter.
The seeds pass out through the bird's gut and are often deposited far away, helping to spread plants far and wide.
Follow Helen on Twitter.
Image copyright Queen's University Belfast Image caption The flexible organic supercapacitor could last three times longer than conventional batteries

Queen's University Belfast scientists have designed a new flexible organic battery that could revolutionise how medical implants are powered.
Devices such as pacemakers are currently fitted with rigid metal based batteries, which can cause discomfort.
The charge in the batteries is set to last three times as long as in their conventional counterparts.
As it is decomposable, the organic battery is also expected to have environmental benefits.
Research leader Dr Geetha Srinivasan from Queen's University's Ionic Liquid Laboratories (QUILL) research centre said the device was also non-flammable and had no leakage issues.
She said the "flexible supercapacitor" could be used to power body sensors such as pacemakers.
Image copyright Queen's University Belfast Image caption Dr Geetha Srinivasan said the new battery would be safer than the batteries currently used in pacemakers

"In medical devices such as pacemakers and defibrillators there are two implants, one which is fitted in the heart and another which holds the metal based, rigid batteries - this is implanted under the skin," said Dr Srinivasan.
"The implant under the skin is wired to the device and can cause patients discomfort as it is rubs against the skin.
"For this reason batteries need to be compatible to the human body and ideally we would like them to be flexible so that they can adapt to body shapes."
Foldable laptops?
Dr Srinivasan said the new battery would be safer than the batteries currently in use.
"It avoids using flammable solvents, therefore you don't have the hazard of explosion," she said.
Image copyright Queen's University Belfast Image caption The flexible supercapacitor could relieve discomfort for those who have medical implants

The technology could also have a non medical application in foldable phones or laptops of the future, the designs of which are currently constrained by rigid batteries.
"Everyone wants to go lightweight and everyone wants to be flexible," Dr Srinivasan said.
"If the battery goes flexible the whole electronics and equipment can go flexible, it's interesting and exciting."
While current batteries contain toxic materials that are complicated to recycle, organic batteries would simply decompose over time.
The new device would be manufactured with organic composites using "natural feedstock" (biomaterials such as cellulose) rather than expensive metals or semiconductors.
Image caption The new batteries would be manufactured with natural organic composites such as cellulose

But there is no danger of the organic batteries decomposing in the human body as they only start to break down at temperatures above 270C.
With the right funding in place, Dr Srinivasan said the devices could easily be commercialised - so that it could be powering phones or similar devices within the next five years.
Image copyright Thinkstock Image caption Culling will be carried out in 21 areas of England this year

Licences have been issued for badger culling in 11 new areas in Devon, Wiltshire, Somerset, Dorset and Cheshire.
Culling is part of the government's 25-year strategy to eradicate bovine TB, but opponents say there is no evidence it is effective.
A badger vaccination programme to stop the spread of TB is restarting.
The Badger Trust condemned the policy as "politically motivated' and an "insult to the nation's intelligence".
The new licences have been granted by Natural England.
It follows a decision to extend culling in areas of Gloucestershire and Somerset.
The government said it will launch a new advisory service for farmers in high risk areas this autumn advising them how to limit the spread of the disease.
Farming Minister George Eustice said: "Bovine TB not only has a devastating impact on our beef and dairy farms, but causes harm and distress to infected cattle.
"Vaccination is just one part of our comprehensive strategy, which also includes tighter cattle controls, improved biosecurity and badger control in areas where bTB is rife, to tackle the reservoir of disease in wildlife."
'Political aggression'

The government's chief vet Nigel Gibbens said: "Proactive badger control is currently the best available option and the licensing of further areas is necessary to realise disease-control benefits across the high risk area of England, rather than at local levels."
Dominic Dyer, chief executive of the Badger Trust, said 32,247 badgers could be killed under these new licences in the next six weeks.
"The government is simply pandering to its core voters in the farming sector," he said.
"No credible scientist has ever suggested that culling badgers will make any significant impact on lowering TB in cattle and there is now clear evidence the policy is failing badly.
"The government is simply imposing its will in an act of political aggression against both science and the will of the people."
The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) said that in 2016, operations in Somerset, Gloucestershire, Dorset, Devon, Cornwall, Herefordshire and Wiltshire were all successful in meeting their targets for culling badgers.
In total, culling will be carried out in 21 areas in the south-west, west and north-west of England this year.
Image caption A Portuguese man-of-war, which was one of a group of six, washed up at Gwithian

Large numbers of potentially fatal Portuguese man-of-war have washed up on a Cornish beach, prompting its closure.
RNLI lifeguards erected do not swim red flags at Perranporth beach earlier because of the "unusually large number" of the creatures.
The jellyfish-like organisms, which have long purple tentacles, have also been seen in Wales this month, says the Marine Conservation Society (MCS).
With mild sea temperatures of 16C there were fears of swimmers being stung.
The RNLI said it placed red flags at Perranporth beach between 10:00 and 13:30 BST to signal that the water was out of bounds, while lifeguards took advice on the level of danger to beachgoers.
More on the man-of-war sightings and other stories from Cornwall

Man-of-war were spotted at Newgale, Pembrokeshire, on 8 September and the next day on beaches near the holiday destination of Newquay.
Image copyright Rachel Wyatt Image caption A leatherback turtle was found washed up at Portreath

They have also been seen at Porthmelon Beach on the Isles of Scilly and on the Cornish beaches of Portheras Cove and Summerleaze, Widemouth, Perranporth, Hayle, Holywell Bay and Praa Sands.
Six were also reported at Gwithian.
Dr Peter Richardson from the MCS said a man-of-war's tentacles, which are usually about 10m (30ft) long, "deliver an agonising and potentially lethal sting".
"They are very pretty and look like partially deflated balloons with ribbons but picking one up could be very nasty," he said.
The man-of-war retain their sting when they are wet, even if they look dead, he warned.
He advised anyone who was stung to get the tentacles away from the body as soon as possible.
What is a Portuguese man-of-war?
Image copyright Joanna Clegg Image caption The man-of-war can be tempting to children because it looks like a deflated balloon

The ( Physalia physalis ) is not a jellyfish, but a floating colony of organisms dependent on one another for survival

) is not a jellyfish, but a floating colony of organisms dependent on one another for survival Its gas-filled bladder (sometimes known as the sail), enables it to float on the ocean surface and drift with the current

Its sting - delivered from tentacles which can reach up to 50m below the surface - is extremely painful for humans and can be fatal in rare circumstances

Hundreds of swimmers are stung every year, especially when huge numbers appear in coastal waters

Leatherback turtles have also been washed up, Dr Richardson said.
A leatherback turtle was found at Portreath on 9 September and another one has been reported in Pembrokeshire.
The NHS recommends using tweezers or a clean stick, and gloves if possible, to remove man-of-war tentacles.
If symptoms become more severe, or a sensitive part of the body has been stung, you should seek medical help.
The MCS is asking people to report any sightings which could rise as man-of-war are driven across the Atlantic by recent storms.
Image copyright RNLI Image caption The RNLI said it wasn't uncommon to see man-of-war after windy conditions

What else would you like to know about man-of-war?
Ask us your questions using the form below and we could be in touch.
Image copyright Stanford University Image caption The study created composite faces judged most and least likely to belong to homosexuals

A facial recognition experiment that claims to be able to distinguish between gay and heterosexual people has sparked a row between its creators and two leading LGBT rights groups.
The Stanford University study claims its software recognises facial features relating to sexual orientation that are not perceived by human observers.
The work has been accused of being "dangerous" and "junk science".
But the scientists involved say these are "knee-jerk" reactions.
Details of the peer-reviewed project are due to be published in the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology.
Narrow jaws

For their study, the researchers trained an algorithm using the photos of more than 14,000 white Americans taken from a dating website.
They used between one and five of each person's pictures and took people's sexuality as self-reported on the dating site.
The researchers said the resulting software appeared to be able to distinguish between gay and heterosexual men and women.
In one test, when the algorithm was presented with two photos where one picture was definitely of a gay man and the other heterosexual, it was able to determine which was which 81% of the time.
With women, the figure was 71%.
"Gay faces tended to be gender atypical," the researchers said.
"Gay men had narrower jaws and longer noses, while lesbians had larger jaws."
But their software did not perform as well in other situations, including a test in which it was given photos of 70 gay men and 930 heterosexual men.
When asked to pick 100 men "most likely to be gay" it missed 23 of them.
In its summary of the study, the Economist - which was first to report the research - pointed to several "limitations" including a concentration on white Americans and the use of dating site pictures, which were "likely to be particularly revealing of sexual orientation".
'Reckless findings'

On Friday, two US-based LGBT-focused civil rights groups issued a joint press release attacking the study in harsh terms.
"This research isn't science or news, but it's a description of beauty standards on dating sites that ignores huge segments of the LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer/questioning) community, including people of colour, transgender people, older individuals, and other LGBTQ people who don't want to post photos on dating sites," said Jim Halloran, chief digital officer of Glaad, a media-monitoring body.
"These reckless findings could serve as a weapon to harm both heterosexuals who are inaccurately outed, as well as gay and lesbian people who are in situations where coming out is dangerous."
Image caption Campaigners raised concerns about what would happen if surveillance tech tried to make use of the study

The Human Rights Campaign added that it had warned the university of its concerns months ago.
"Stanford should distance itself from such junk science rather than lending its name and credibility to research that is dangerously flawed and leaves the world - and this case, millions of people's lives - worse and less safe than before," said its director of research, Ashland Johnson.
The two researchers involved - Prof Michael Kosinski and Yilun Wang - have since responded in turn, accusing their critics of "premature judgement".
"Our findings could be wrong... however, scientific findings can only be debunked by scientific data and replication, not by well-meaning lawyers and communication officers lacking scientific training," they wrote.
"However, if our results are correct, Glaad and HRC representatives' knee-jerk dismissal of the scientific findings puts at risk the very people for whom their organisations strive to advocate."
'Treat cautiously'

Previous research that linked facial features to personality traits has become unstuck when follow-up studies failed to replicate the findings.
This includes the claim that a face's shape could be linked to aggression.
One independent expert, who spoke to the BBC, said he had added concerns about the claim that the software involved in the latest study picked up on "subtle" features shaped by hormones the subjects had been exposed to in the womb.
"These 'subtle' differences could be a consequence of gay and straight people choosing to portray themselves in systematically different ways, rather than differences in facial appearance itself," said Prof Benedict Jones, who runs the Face Research Lab at the University of Glasgow.
It was also important, he said, for the technical details of the analysis algorithm to be published to see if they stood up to informed criticism.
"New discoveries need to be treated cautiously until the wider scientific community - and public - have had an opportunity to assess and digest their strengths and weaknesses," he said.
Video

The Parker Solar Probe will depart in June 2018 and is set to orbit the Sun in 2024.
Nasa is paying about $1.5bn to build and launch the spacecraft which will send back data from around 89 million miles away.
Video

US firm Planet Labs makes satellites you could hold in your hands, and has more in orbit than anyone else.
"We thought that we could do space a little bit differently," says Planet Labs' co-founder, Will Marshall.
Read the full article at The Disruptors - The new space race

Producer: Adrienne Murray; Cameraman: Hans Schauerte
Video

The UK's first subsidy-free solar farm has been unveiled.
The Clayhill solar farm, near Flitwick, Bedfordshire, is seen as a "landmark development" for the industry, developers Anesco said.
It comes as the UK marked its "greenest" summer on record.
Video

Mount Agung on the Indonesian island of Bali is an active volcano that is at risk of its first eruption in 54 years.
Locals are being evacuated but most tourists are so far unfazed.
Video by Simon Atkinson
Video

The winners have been announced for the Insight Astronomy Photographer of the Year.
The competition received 3,800 entries from amateurs and professional photographers from all over the world.
One of the judges is Dr Marek Kukula.
He tells Dan Damon about the dreamers and scientists behind the images.
(IMAGE & CREDIT: The Rho Ophiuchi Clouds  Artem Mironov (Russia) - STARS & NEBULAE WINNER & OVERALL WINNER.)
How long do elephants spend sleeping?
Researchers find that African elephants in the wild sleep an average of two hours a day and regularly go nearly two days without sleep.
Image copyright Getty Images

Pubs are calling time on "wasteful" plastic drinking straws, which campaigners say are used only once yet take centuries to decompose.
So is it time to refuse the straw and get used to sipping our drinks instead?
JD Wetherspoon is the latest pub to stop automatically putting straws in drinks, effective this week, saying eco-friendly paper straws will be offered in its 900 pubs by the end of the year.
"It's a waste," says Su Cacioppo, Wetherspoon's personnel and legal director.
"Personally I like a straw but a lot of people don't even want them."
Designer Vivienne Westwood recently backed an online campaign for people to refuse straws and start drinking from the glass - known as Refuse the Straw - which began in the US and is encouraging pubs and restaurants to follow suit.
What's the problem with plastic straws?
Image copyright Getty Images

Most straws are made from plastics such as polypropylene and polystyrene, which unless recycled take hundreds of years to decompose.
It means small plastic items like straws, coffee cup lids and plastic bottle tops are strewn in the ocean and on landfill sites - even though they may only have been used for the time it takes to finish a drink.
Ms Westwood's Facebook post, which warned that "the straw in your cocktail or coffee will be on this planet forever", has been shared nearly 300,000 times.
"Very little is recycled, and much ends up on the ocean," it read.
Wetherspoon, which hands out 70 million straws a year, says bar staff had complained about chucking vast quantities of used straws away during their shifts.
"This subject was coming up more and more often," says Ms Cacioppo.
Kate Dell, All Bar One's assistant marketing manager, a chain which gets through 4.7 million straws a year but has vowed to reduce its straw usage by one-third, says she is confident customers would be "happy to enjoy their drinks straw-free".
What should we be doing?
Image copyright Getty Images

Simon Ellin, chief executive of the UK Recycling Association, says "nobody would be bothered" if bartenders stopped automatically putting straws in drinks and it is free for companies to implement.
"I had a pint of soda water the other day and not only did they put two straws in it but a stirrer, and I asked why they had done that - I'd imagine most people wouldn't query it," he says.
Paper straws are another alternative to cut waste - although Wetherspoon's Ms Cacioppo says the business will face "extra costs" for introducing them and admits they "feel a tiny bit different - but I don't think it's a big deal".
But Mark Hall, commercial director at BusinessWaste.co.uk, says it is not enough for pubs to simply phase out straws - saying people should be expected to pay tax for their straws, similar to the 5p carrier bag charge.
"Why on earth do you need a straw in your gin and tonic anyway?"
he says.
"The industry can do something about it, but so can we as consumers - it's easy to say 'no straw please'."
Why are plastic straws so popular?
Image copyright Getty Images

From adding a flourish to a cocktail to apparently making a drink taste better, straws have been commonplace in almost every restaurant and bar in the UK for decades.
Rye grass straws were used for hundreds of years before the first old-style paper straw was patented in the US in 1888 by inventor Marvin Stone - which since the 1970s has gradually been replaced by plastic alternatives.
McDonald's has even claimed its Coca-Cola tastes better when drunk through one of its straws - which are slightly wider than in other fast food chains.
The chain, which hands out free straws with its drinks, and serves 3.5 million people in the UK every day, says it has invested in recycling units in its restaurants to cut waste.
"This includes our straws, which are made from recyclable plastic," a spokesman said.
Does using a straw protect my teeth?
Image copyright Getty Images

But what about the damage to your teeth?
Dentists say sipping through a straw can reduce the amount of liquid with which your teeth come in contact - potentially preventing tea and coffee stains, as well as erosion from fizzy drinks.
Experts have even advised Prosecco-lovers to drink the wine through a straw to protect their teeth from the high acid and sugar content.
But Dr Nigel Carter, chief executive of the Oral Health Foundation, says people can protect their teeth by having a drink during mealtimes rather than on its own.
"However, if we are to consume them outside of these times, using a straw really can help to reduce some of the damage," he says.
Image caption Could a genetic mutation explain some dogs' insatiable appetite?
When it comes to man's best friend, science may finally have solved the mystery of their gluttony - some Labradors, it seems, are genetically predisposed to being hungry.
That's according to scientists who were discussing their ongoing mission to improve our favourite pets' health at the British Science Association Festival in Brighton.
Several research teams in the UK are on a mission to improve canine health.
Researchers at the University of Cambridge have studied the appetite of Britain's favourite dog breed, and suggest Labradors are genetically at risk of becoming overweight.
Roughly a quarter of British households own a pet dog, and Labrador retrievers remain our most popular canine companion.
However, this stereotypically "greedy" breed often suffers size-related health problems.
Blame the owners?
"Obesity is a serious issue for our dog population," says Dr Eleanor Raffan from the Wellcome Trust-MRC Institute of Metabolic Science.
"It has the potential to have a massive impact on pet welfare."
In research supported by the Dogs Trust, Dr Raffan and her colleagues have analysed DNA from the saliva of Labradors across the UK.
They found that particularly greedy individuals possess a gene mutation responsible for increasing their appetite.
"We found around a quarter of pet Labradors have at least one copy of this mutation in the gene," Dr Raffan explains.
Their increased appetite manifests itself as a "food obsession", familiar to dog-owners as begging or scavenging for food.
In the past, the onus has been on owners to restrict the diet of their pets to prevent excessive weight gain.
But Dr Raffan's research suggests the propensity for large appetites, and hence potential obesity, is hardwired into some individuals.
"We hope to shift the paradigm away from owner-blaming" says Dr Raffan.
"It's a bit more nuanced than just owners needing to be careful."
Freedom from hunger

Dr Raffan cautions against any attempt to breed this "greedy mutation" out of Labrador lines.
While it might predispose the dogs to obesity, a strong focus on food may also explain why Labradors are so easy to train and are such loyal human companions.
"If we try to get rid of the mutation, we might find we change the personality of the breed, and that would be a real shame," she explains.
Yet their results raise an ethical conundrum.
Owners and veterinary surgeons are responsible for providing five core so-called freedoms to animals in their care, including freedom from pain and disease, and freedom from hunger.
Obesity is a disease, and negatively impacts upon canine quality of life.
"But equally, being hungry is a welfare issue," says Dr Raffan.
"And these dogs are genetically hungry."
Dr Raffan hopes future research will improve the satiety of their diets, allowing a feeling of "fullness" without the potential for excessive weight gain.
Bearing the weight

Being overweight undoubtedly reduces a dog's quality of life, and can also affect their ability to cope with arthritis and other underlying joint disorders.
At the University of Liverpool, scientists are using state-of-the-art imaging technology to study diseases affecting the knee joints of Labradors.
Damage to the canine cruciate ligament, similar to the injuries commonly suffered by professional human athletes, is the most common orthopaedic problem seen in veterinary practices.
Injury to the knee ligaments is also more common in heavier dog breeds

"We're trying to understand how the shape of the Labrador body and the way they walk might contribute to knee problems," says Prof Eithne Comerford, a specialist in musculoskeletal biology.
Using high-speed x-ray cameras, the researchers film their canine patients walking through the lab, and watch their knee bones slide and twist in real-time.
The team hopes to understand how walking contributes to the risk of ligament injury and rupture in Labradors, with the ultimate goal of reducing lameness and suffering within the breed.
"This data will also help veterinary surgeons and engineers design better treatments for ligament damage in Labradors, like customised knee implants," explains biomechanist Dr Karl Bates from the University of Liverpool.
Both research groups rely heavily on the good will of Labrador owners, both for collecting samples and entering their pets into experimental trials.
In addition to tackling diagnosed health issues, researchers hope to change the public's perception of what "desirable" traits should characterise our favourite breeds.
"There is a real danger when we breed dogs to be cuddlier and cuter," warns Dr Raffan.
"I think people have seen so many overweight Labradors, they start to assume it's normal".
Dr Charlotte Brassey is a BBSRC Future Leader Fellow at Manchester Metropolitan University, and British Science Association Media Fellow 2017.
Twitter: @cbrassey
Image copyright Getty Images

The US solar industry has seen dramatic growth in the past few years, but a request for a rare trade action has led to a fierce fight over the future of the industry - and one that wouldn't exist without the presidency of Donald Trump.
Phil Brodhagen runs a solar installation company in Colorado Springs, and his customers - local homeowners and businesses in a military-friendly town - love American-made products.
Until they see the price.
"They want to go solar, but they do have a limit on how much they can spend."
he says.
"They'd love an American product, but if they can't afford it, they'll either not get a system at all, or go for the cheaper one."
Brodhagen is one of hundreds of business owners across the US paying very close attention to a case in front of the US International Trade Commission.
And he's worried about the outcome.
"It will hurt this industry," he says.
"It's going to be me laying off people as well as everyone else."
On Friday, the commission is expected to rule on whether imported solar products have seriously injured US solar product manufacturers, enough to impose higher tariffs on imports worldwide.
The petition was brought by two solar manufacturers who are based in the US, but owned by overseas companies.
Suniva and SolarWorld have argued their financial troubles - as well as a series of other US solar manufacturer bankruptcies - are due to a massive oversupply of solar cells and panels imported from overseas, primarily from Chinese companies.
Image copyright Getty Images

They point to dozens of US companies like theirs that have gone out of business since 2012.
"Quite simply, we need the commission's help to save solar manufacturing in the United States," Juergen Stein, chief executive of SolarWorld Americans told the commission in August.
But SolarWorld and Suniva find themselves fiercely opposed by much of the solar industry in the US, including the largest trade group, the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA).
SEIA has argued increasing the prices of panels through tariffs will set back the solar industry for years, hurting companies that buy and install solar panels, or make solar-related products.
The trade group estimates a loss of as many as 88,000 jobs, or a third of the current solar work force, if Suniva and SolarWorld's requests come to pass.
The group accuses the two companies of using the rare trade action to save themselves, at the expense of the rest of the industry.
What's at stake?
For both sides, the immediate future of the fast-growing solar industry in America.
Bret Sowers, a utility-scale solar farm developer, calls the trade case an "eminent threat" to his business.
Projects like his are reliant on how low a price per watt cost they can offer utility firms.
Their competition is not just other solar firms, but coal and wind, natural gas and nuclear energy.
New solar capacity doubled between 2015 and 2016 and such large-scale projects drove more than half the growth.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption An employee makes a final inspection on panels during a tour of an REC solar panel manufacturing plant in Singapore

"We have close to $2bn in investment we've planned across the southeast," he says, based on prices continuing their downward trend.
If he can't deliver the prices he expected, those solar farms won't be built.
"That's hundreds of construction jobs gone," he says, and layoffs at his company.
Sowers is specifically frustrated because US plants at SolarWorld and Suniva were not building the larger, 72-cell panels at the kind of scale his projects need.
"The two dots don't really connect.
They were making cars and I'm buying trucks - and now they're claiming the trucks are hurting the cars."
James Marlow, who runs a similar Georgia company, is frustrated with the petition, even though he just finished a project with Suniva panels.
"They used to be the home town team," he says of the firm, originally spun out from Georgia Tech and headquartered in the state.
In 2015, in an effort to expand, a Hong Kong-based energy firm purchased more than half the company, but Suniva filed for bankruptcy earlier this year, and weeks later, brought the trade petition.
SolarWorld, whose parent company also filed for insolvency in Germany, joined the petition shortly thereafter.
Marlow says he supports bringing back manufacturing to America, but thinks that means a whole set of policies to deal with what's a "drastically larger" issue.
"It's why most of our clothes are made in Asia and why this cell phone I'm talking to you on made in Asia - it's not just one action."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption A stretch of road has been paved with solar PV (photovoltaic) panels in France.
He attended the 15 August arguments in front of the trade commission on the case and said interest was intense.
There were two overflow rooms for people to listen.
An official told him they hadn't seen that many people come to hear a case since NAFTA.
If the trade commission finds in favour of the manufacturers, it can make recommendations, but it is up to the president to decide.
And President Trump is eager to impose tariffs, especially in an industry in which he could be seen to be tough on Chinese manufacturing.
He reportedly has said "I want someone to bring me some tariffs" because "China is laughing at us".
Image copyright Getty Images

Once the trade commission makes its initial ruling, it will have several more weeks to make a recommendation to Trump.
The president then can decide to take the recommendation or not.
Solarworld had earlier successes with two requests for increased tariffs on Chinese manufacturers for similar unfair trade practice accusations.
But that wasn't enough, says Tim Brightbill, a lawyer representing SolarWorld, because Chinese firms shifted production to other countries to get around the tariffs.
He also claims the potential job loss numbers are overblown.
"These predictions were made before when SolarWorld brought actions against China, that somehow jobs would be lost.
But the opposite happened," Brightbill says.
The situation is especially odd considering both SolarWorld and Suniva are owned by parent companies that could be harmed by the tariff.
Brightbill says "it just shows that SolarWorld is committed to manufacturing here," even if it involves putting a tariff on a German-produced panel.
They may not be alone.
While the US solar industry is holding its breath, foreign manufacturers are starting to think about setting up shop in the US, especially if the commission recommends a broad tariff.
Both sides see the dispute as a turning point for the industry - and both think the president should be on their side.
"If the Trump administration wants to create jobs," James Marlow says.
"They should join with the solar industry."
The question for President Trump will be - which part?
Image copyright Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Image caption Crick's lecture was said to have altered the logic of biology

Sixty years ago this week, one of the greatest British scientists, Francis Crick, gave a lecture in London in which he accurately predicted how genes work, setting the course for the genetic revolution we are now living through.
Here, evolutionary biologist Professor Matthew Cobb from Manchester University unpicks the predictions that set a new course for how we understand the very stuff we are made from.
In one lecture, it has been said that Francis Crick "permanently altered the logic of biology".
Only four years earlier, he and the young American Jim Watson had solved the double helix structure of DNA, using data gathered by Rosalind Franklin.
Aged 41, Crick was still five years away from winning the Nobel Prize for this work, but he had a reputation as a powerful and profound thinker.
He gave his lecture - "On protein synthesis" - at University College London for the Society for Experimental Biology.
In it, Crick spoke about how genes do what they do.
At the time, this subject was still very murky - some scientists were not even convinced that genes were made of DNA.
But Crick delivered four predictions about genes - and their link to the proteins that build our bodies.
In each of these ideas, he was right.
Cracking the code

Image copyright Science Photo Library

Crick started with the main thing that genes do: they control the production of proteins.
The problem Crick explored was that the DNA in a gene is simply a chemical code - a string of something called bases - A, C, T, G.

Crick had to explain how the cell could get from this one-dimensional sequence of bases in DNA to the complex three-dimensional structures of proteins.
Even more puzzling was the fact that proteins can fold themselves into nearly any shape.
Crick's answer was simple: the order of bases in the gene - what he called "genetic information" - corresponded to the order of the amino acids that make up each protein, and nothing more.
There was no structural information about the protein that was encoded in the gene, he claimed.
He called this the sequence hypothesis.
Somehow, the cell "read" the information in the gene and assembled the amino acids together like beads on a string.
The resulting protein folded itself - spontaneously - into its final 3-D structure.
We still cannot easily predict the structure of a protein from the order of its amino acids, but Crick's sequence hypothesis holds good.
Central dogma

To explain how exactly cells assemble proteins, Crick predicted there must be some small molecules - he called these "adaptors" - that could recognise each of the 20 different amino acids in the body, and would bring them to where they could be turned into a protein in the right order.
As Crick gave his talk in London this molecule was being identified in an American laboratory.
It is now called transfer RNA.
It is the biological messenger that reads and "translates" the genetic code in the cell's protein-building factory.
Image copyright Wellcome Library, London Image caption Crick drew a diagram to explain the flow of information from DNA to proteins

The most controversial and influential part of the lecture though was what was called the central dogma.
Crick explained that as proteins are synthesised, information is taken from the DNA molecule, first into an RNA molecule, and is then used to make a protein.
Before the lecture, he drew a little diagram to explain what he meant.
The arrows show what Crick called the flow of information going from DNA to RNA to protein.
DNA and RNA could also copy themselves, so there are also arrows going from DNA to DNA and from RNA to RNA.
Because the experimental data were not clear, Crick accepted that it might just be possible that DNA could directly lead to the production of proteins, so he drew an arrow there, too (this is not in fact the case).
The most important point was that, as Crick put it, once the information had gone from DNA into a protein, it could not get back into your DNA.
There was no biochemical route for a protein to change your DNA sequence.
Crick thought it might be possible for information to go from RNA to DNA, and this later turned out to be the case, when it was discovered that some RNA viruses can get into our DNA.
But the route from protein to DNA is impossible.
This central dogma emphasises that our DNA sequence cannot be changed by our proteins, or by how they are changed by experience.
Over the last 60 years this has proved to be correct.
Despite the excitement about what is called epigenetics, which explains how genes can be turned on and off by the environment, this never leads to a change in our actual DNA sequence.
Crick's dogma was absolutely right.
Crick later cheerfully admitted that when he coined the phrase, he didn't know what a dogma was.
What he really meant was that it was a basic assumption about how genes worked.
Whatever its name, it still guides scientists today.
Crick's final brilliant prediction was to suggest that in the future biologists would use sequence data to understand evolution, by comparing the sequences of different species.
In 1957, when Crick was speaking, protein sequences were known from only five species, while DNA sequencing was science fiction and 20 years in the future.
But this is exactly what happened, and we can now understand how organisms evolved in unprecedented detail, by comparing their sequences, just as Crick suggested.
Crick's lecture, which was published the following year, continues to be read and cited by scientists all over the world.
It is a monument of clear and penetrating thinking by one of the 20th century's greatest minds.
In all his key predictions, Francis Crick was right, and he did indeed change the logic of biology.
Professor Matthew Cobb is a zoologist, historian and author based at Manchester University
Image copyright Clayton Conn

Photographer Clayton Conn took these pictures in Mexico City, his home since 2009.
His neighbourhood - Portales, in the borough of Benito Jurez - suffered gravely in Tuesday's earthquake, the most lethal tremor to hit Mexico in a generation.
"The area I live in was hit pretty hard, so a lot of the people - a lot of my neighbours are devastated."
This image shows the building two doors down from his apartment.
It originally had five storeys.
"The two bottom floors have been completely collapsed," he says.
"The neighbours said that there are people still inside.
But the building was still sort of... kind of standing... From what I understand, people are still in there.
And those neighbours, they couldn't touch the building.
They fear it could continue collapsing."
Mr Conn was out with his girlfriend when the earthquake struck at 13:14 local time (18:14 GMT).
"I had my camera with me," he explains, "so we spent the day in the streets documenting, and also trying to get home."
Image copyright Clayton Conn

Image copyright Clayton Conn

Image copyright Clayton Conn

A couple of blocks away, he saw crowds of people staring across the rubble of another building, an eight or 10-storey apartment complex.
Neighbours wearing bicycle helmets for protection had joined the rescue effort alongside police and disaster relief workers.
"When they felt like there was a sign of someone, or they felt movement or that someone could be trapped down there, they would raise their fists - and that's the signal.
"So everyone - a crowd of a thousand people - immediately raise their fists, and there's almost complete silence.
You can just hear the generators from the vehicle they've brought in to shine light.
You couldn't hear a thing.
In that silence, they can try to communicate with anyone who is trapped below."
Image copyright Clayton Conn

Image copyright Clayton Conn

"A lot of people at first didn't realise the extent of the damage, so at first people were sort of joking in parks, and other areas where you're supposed to congregate when this occurs, to be safe.
"Once people started to realise that this was much more serious than maybe a small earthquake - because in Mexico City we feel earthquakes very frequently - some that are strong... A lot of people were in a state of shock - but a lot of people were reacting in a very heartening way.
"People were grabbing stuff from their houses, their offices, and just mobilising themselves.
"Within 20 minutes of the earthquake I was seeing people who looked like office workers carrying shovels and pickaxes - I have no idea where they got them from!
"A lot of people wearing their button-up shirts and pants - and a lot of younger people, artists, student types, running around with their shovels."
Image copyright Clayton Conn

Image copyright Clayton Conn

"The authorities weren't able to immediately attend all the places that were affected, all the buildings.
There's not enough rescue teams.
So there was a degree of shock and nervousness, but also - that sense of empathy that was really strong as well.
"People were handing out food... it was a really hot day.
"I only saw one woman that started crying.
I saw lots of people with sad faces, but also faces that were not completely overwhelmed.
Image copyright Clayton Conn

Image copyright Clayton Conn

The new earthquake struck on the 32nd anniversary of a magnitude 8 quake that killed up to 10,000 people and left 30,000 others injured.
That 1985 tremor caused serious damage to Mexico City and its surrounding areas, with more than 400 buildings collapsed and thousands more damaged.
Every year, the authorities carry out earthquake drills as part of the commemoration.
The photographer says they were held 40 minutes to an hour before the real-life disaster.
"There's an alarm that goes off - an earthquake alarm.
It's pretty effective.
It gives you, usually, about 40 seconds to a minute of heads-up...

"You hear this dramatic alarm and you leave the building.
But yesterday [when the real quake hit], the alarm didn't go off immediately - it went off midway through the earthquake.
"That might have caught a lot of people off guard."
This picture shows troops from the Mexican military, who mobilise in response to natural disasters - be it a hurricane or an earthquake.
The yellow armband signifies that that they're responding to an event, and providing aid to possible victims.
Image copyright Clayton Conn

All pictures copyrighted.
Image copyright Science Photo Library

Try to swat a fly and it will soon become clear that they're faster than you.
Much faster.
But how on Earth do these tiny creatures - with their minuscule brains - outwit us so easily?
You've probably pondered it after chasing a fly around your house and flailing your shoe with repeated, unsuccessful swats.
How does it move so fast?
Can it read my mind?
It was the question put to the BBC World Service CrowdScience team for our most recent episode addressing the apparent super powers of tiny animals.
The answer is that, compared with you and me, flies essentially see the world in slow motion.
To illustrate this, have a look at a clock with a ticking hand.
As a human, you see the clock ticking at a particular speed.
But for a turtle it would appear to be ticking at twice that speed.
For most fly species, each tick would drag by about four times more slowly.
In effect, the speed of time differs depending on your species.
This happens because animals see the world around them like a continuous video.
But in reality, they piece together images sent from the eyes to the brain in distinct flashes a set number of times per second.
Humans average 60 flashes per second, turtles 15, and flies 250.
It's all relative

The speed at which those images are processed by the brain is called the "flicker fusion rate".
In general, the smaller the species, the faster its critical flicker fusion rate - and flies, in particular, put us to shame.
Professor Roger Hardie, from the University of Cambridge, investigates how flies' eyes work, and he has an experiment to determine their flicker fusion rate.
Image copyright SPL Image caption "How d'ya like them apples?"
For flies, time drags more slowly than for people

"The flicker fusion rate is simply how fast a light has to be turning on and off before it's perceived or seen as just a continuous light" says Prof Hardie.
Roger inserts tiny glass electrodes into the living light sensitive cells of their eyes - photoreceptors - before flashing LED lights at faster and faster speeds.
Each flash of the LED produces a tiny electrical current in the photoreceptors that a computer can graph onto a screen.
Tests reveal the fastest fly records distinct responses to flickering up to 400 times per second, more than six times faster than our own rate.
The fastest vision of all is found in a species literally called a "killer fly".
It's a tiny predatory species found in Europe that catches other flies out of the air with super-fast reactions.
In her "fly lab" at Cambridge University, Dr Paloma Gonzales-Bellido demonstrates the killer flies' hunting behaviour by releasing fruit fly prey into a special filming box with a female killer fly.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Some flies see six times faster than us, catching prey in mid-air in less than a second.
Paloma records the behaviour at 1,000 frames per second using slow motion video cameras with a recording buffer.
The attached computer constantly saves the video, over-writing itself every twelve seconds.
When the fly moves, Paloma clicks a button to permanently save the last 12 seconds.
"Our reaction time is so slow that if we were to stop it when we think something is happening it would have happened already," says Dr Gonzales-Bellido.
Essentially, we can't even click a button before the behaviour has happened, it's that fast.
Fly vs fly

With the killer flies and their prey in the filming box, initially the killer fly just sat around motionless, but as one of the fruit flies flew about 7cm above it, there was a flash of movement and suddenly the killer fly was at the bottom of the box chomping into the quivering fruit fly.
Only looking at the slowed-down footage on the computer did it become clear what happened; the killer fly took off, circled the fruit fly three times as it tried to grab it repeatedly, before succeeding in capturing the elusive fruit fly with its front legs.
The whole behaviour from take-off to landing took just one second.
It appears as a flash to our eyes, so conversely, the swatting hand of a human must appear at a snail's pace.
Image copyright Other Image caption The killer fly's eyes contain many more mitochondria than in the eyes of other fly species

Image caption Paloma Gonzales-Bellido uses a special filming box to study killer flies

To enable this incredible speed of the killer fly, which is faster even than other fly species, the light-detecting cells in the killer fly eyes contain many more mitochondria (the "batteries" of biological cells) than are present in the same cells of other flies.
These are the batteries of the cell, so the speedy vision must take more energy than slow vision, explaining why all eyes aren't just set to the highest flicker fusion rate.
The carnivorous diet of the killer fly provides the large amounts of energy it needs to power these high-energy cells.
But even if we had the same number of mitochondria in the cells or our own eyes, we wouldn't have the same vision speed because flies' light-sensitive cells have a totally different design to those of vertebrates.
Behind the structural differences in the eyes of flies is their evolutionary origin.
Arthropods and vertebrates, the groups holding flies and humans, evolved their eyes entirely separately around 700-750 million years ago.
String theory

Flies' eyes evolved to pick up light with a series of tiny string-like structures that lie horizontal to the path that light travels through the eye.
These structures react to light mechanically whereas vertebrates have long tube-like cells facing the light, with chemicals that react to light at the base.
This structure in the fly eye is something Roger studies in his lab.
"It's more sensitive in terms of being able to give a large signal to the tiniest amount of light and it can also respond faster than the rods and cones in the vertebrate eye," he explains.
Image caption Roger Hardie studies the structure of the fly visual system

There are a few reasons for this higher sensitivity, but what Prof Hardie discovered is that they respond mechanically to light, as opposed to chemically as in cones and rods.
Mechanical responses enable faster neural signals.
On top of that, there's a limit to the speed at which neural impulses can travel and the smaller nerve distances from fly eye to fly brain speeds up processing compared to larger vertebrates.
Some vertebrates experience much faster vision than our own.
Whether the species is able to fly seems to correlate with faster vision, as does being small.
This may be because small flying animals have to react so quickly during flight to avoid approaching obstacles.
'Slow motion swats'

The fastest vision of all is found in species that catch flies in the air.
Back with vertebrates, when investigating the vision of the pied flycatcher, a small perching bird that catches flies in flight, scientists at Uppsala University in Sweden discovered that it was able to identify a light flashing on and off 146 times per second from a continuous light source.
The birds were trained to associate a flashing light source with a tasty treat, and would accurately identify the flashing light up to this rate, placing their flicker fusion rate at 146.
That's about twice the rate humans can see but still not as fast as the average fly.
This means the birds, like flies, experience each tick of the clock more slowly than humans.
There is an evolutionary pressure on the flycatchers to experience the ticking hand of the clock as slowly as possible in order to outwit their speedy prey.
Over evolutionary time, birds that experienced 'slower ticking' could react faster to their prey, allowing them to eat more, raise more chicks and pass this speedy vision to future generations.
The flies that have been chased by the fast-sighted birds will be evolving faster reactions to get away.
Creating an evolutionary arms race that has gone on longer even than the existence of birds.
Prey flies have been evolving faster vision and reactions to escape predatory flies like the killer fly since they evolved flight.
Next time you try inanely to swat a fly, try not to be so disheartened.
Your lumbering, slow motion swats are being thwarted by hundreds of millions of years of natural selection letting the flies watch your attempts in slow motion.
Between you and the fly, time, it seems, is relative.
Listen to 'CrowdScience' on the BBC World Service, the programme whose listeners inspired this article, and send your science questions to 'CrowdScience@bbc.co.uk' :
The low-lying Caribbean islands inhabited by Panama's indigenous Guna people are threatened by rising sea levels and increasingly unpredictable weather.
But unlike many island communities facing such problems, the Guna have an escape plan.
The tiny port of Carti on the mainland of Panama is the jumping-off place for day trippers who come to swim, splash and snorkel around the idyllic-looking islands that dot the horizon.
Motor boats buzz in and out carrying smiling visitors wearing life jackets and sun hats.
It's one of Panama's premier tourist destinations.
The islands - almost one for every day of the year - make up the Guna Yala autonomous region, together with a strip of territory on the mainland.
Most Guna communities live on the archipelago, and have done for centuries, after they were driven offshore by disease and venomous snakes.
But now many believe that only a move back to the mainland can secure their future.
It is the people of Gardi Sugdub - Crab Island - who are in the vanguard of the relocation project.
A kilometre inland from the port, where the earth is the colour of rusty nails, they have set aside 17 hectares (42 acres) for the development of a new village - La Barriada.
Unlike other communities around the globe threatened by the vagaries of climate change, the Guna people have a huge advantage: they already own the land they want to relocate to.
Victoria Navarro is one of those from Gardi Sugdub who pictures a new, more spacious existence on dry, higher land.
"I can imagine the community here in La Barriada," she says, looking out across the area of low, tropical vegetation that features a stream, and a small hill.
"My grandchildren want to play soccer and volleyball, but there's no place for them to do that on the island.
Here they can be free like the birds."
Back in 2010, Victoria and her island neighbours began to clear this land, close to the area where they grow crops, in preparation for construction of the new village.
"Everyone came and participated," she remembers.
"It was a very happy time."
Around the same time, with finance from the Inter-American Development Bank, Panama's national government began work on a huge new school adjacent to La Barriada.
The $9m complex, designed for students from across the archipelago, is almost complete.
A little further down the hill, $11m was invested in a new health centre.
Everything looked hopeful, especially when the government made a commitment in 2015 to build 300 houses in La Barriada - the Guna may own all this land, but they do not have the financial resources to develop so many homes.
Find out more

Listen to Linda Pressly's report on Panama's vanishing islands for Crossing Continents at 11:00 on Thursday on BBC Radio 4

Or catch up later on the BBC iPlayer

However, today work on the school and hospital has halted, as a result of a litany of contractual hiccups - and crucially, a failure to plan for adequate supplies of water and electricity.
Work never began on the 300 houses.
The Guna are disappointed but undeterred, and they continue to lobby and to raise funds.
Victoria is an optimist.
She still comes every so often to La Barriada to help re-clear those 17 hectares.
Even so, this patch of land is slowly being reclaimed by the jungle - much as Victoria's home is gradually being swallowed by the Caribbean Sea.
Image caption The La Barriada health centre stands half finished as the jungle regrows around it

Her island, Gardi Sugdub, is just 400m long and 150m wide, but it is occupied by about 2,000 people.
Every inch of the island is built on, unless it's part of a sandy footpath.
Victoria herself lives in a compound with 50 of her extended family - 17 people share her simple bamboo home.
The lack of space for a growing population once seemed to be a bigger problem than the rising sea level, which has been creeping up at a rate of between 2.3mm and 2.5mm per year - roughly an inch every 10 years.
But efforts to enlarge the island may have made its inhabitants more vulnerable to the effects of climate change.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Our island's being swallowed by the sea

Delfino Davies, who works as a guide for visiting tourists, lives with the rest of his extended family in six simple bamboo houses constructed in a line radiating from the centre of the island out to the shoreline.
It made sense to his forefathers to push the shore further away.
"My grandfather, Charlie Davies, when he came here it was a small island so he reclaimed land.
He brought the stone here, and extended his land," he says.
This has happened across the Guna archipelago.
People have infilled around the edges of the islands using stone, rubbish, and - most controversially - coral.
Image caption Coral is sometimes used for infilling and extending the shoreline

"Coral reefs stop wave action.
So when you remove the coral, even down to 3m in depth, you have no protection.
This has created chaos for people," says Dr Hector Guzman, a research scientist at the Smithsonian Tropical Institute in Panama City.
"The Carti area was where we got the most dramatic data about the destruction of the coral reef when we compared aerial photos taken in the 1960s and then again in 2003."
This means that the islanders are now particularly vulnerable to storm surges, and when the rain and wind come, Victoria Navarro often finds herself ankle-deep in water at home.
"I never sleep well - we're awake 24 hours a day," she says.
Image caption Victoria with her husband Raulio Harris in her overcrowded compound

In 2008, severe storms tore across the island over two long weeks.
Although a move to the mainland had already been mooted, it was in the wake of that destruction that people on Gardi Sugdub began to put together a plan.
The Guna are very well-organised.
Sailas, spiritual and civic leaders, take decisions based on input from the community - on Gardi Sugdub there are meetings almost every day.
And a committee dedicated to the relocation plan is responsible for driving it forward and liaising with government agencies.
"This project's going to be a model for the rest of the Guna people," says Blas Lopez, a sociologist and community activist.
"But some of the other island communities don't think it will happen.
They see the government hasn't supported us, so they're waiting to see if it will become a reality.
If we achieve our dream, other communities will move back to the mainland too."
On the much smaller nearby island of Gardi Muladup, a lack of space means pigs snuffle and feed in pens constructed over the ocean.
Carlos Perez, one of the sailas for this community of 500, is a sprightly 102 years old.
And he is worried.
"We can't control the water," he says.
"In January and February there are very strong winds, and huge waves."
This island has even less protection than Gardi Sugdub.
Image caption Carlos Perez: The people of Gardi Mudalup also want to move onshore

"We're a solitary island - there are no other islands in front of us, so we're much more vulnerable to flooding."
Carlos Perez says his people want to move back to the mainland too.
They have a piece of land on the mainland they call Red Mountain, and they hope to follow the people of Gardi Sugdub.
Not everyone is looking forward to a new life on dry land, though.
Even though her home floods, Antoneta Reurter, the mother of six children, says she has no plans to leave Gardi Sugdub.
In fact, she is hoping she will acquire more space for her family if her neighbours move to La Barriada.
And she does not trust predictions that some of the islands on the archipelago could be flooded in a decade.
"I don't believe the scientists," she says.
"I don't think the islands will disappear - only God can decide that.
If people are corrupt and behave badly, God can send a hurricane or an earthquake and maybe then the islands could go."
Her view - that other-worldly powers may punish the Guna for wickedness - is not one shared by the director of education on Gardi Sugdub, Francisco Gonzales.
"We're more and more affected by climate change," he says.
"And what we're seeing lately isn't the same as what we've seen before - the weather can be really good, then there's a sudden change.
The sea's rising, there are floods in the streets and high winds damage the school's roof.
When that happens we have to send the children home to keep them safe."
Five hundred students squash into the island's classrooms in shifts.
The new school next to the illusory La Barriada on the mainland should have opened three years ago.
When - yet again - classes failed to commence this year, the people protested, blocking the main road leading inland from the port of Carti, and demanding an end to false promises.
Now it seems the government of President Juan Carlos Varela may be listening.
"We hope we can re-start work on the school, and complete it in the first quarter of 2018," Jorge Gonzalez, the minister who has taken the lead on the relocation project, told the BBC.
"We're going to try and find the economic resources, and get electricity to the school and the health centre."
And what about La Barriada, and the construction of those 300 homes he promised back in 2015?
"They're in the budget for this year and next - the Ministry of Housing's in the process of contracting a company than can build them.
We're hoping they will be delivered in 2018.
That's a reality."
And there are signs the government's commitment is genuine - housing officials have since visited La Barriada to inspect the land.
So perhaps, after all, the Guna's foresight will pay off, and their efforts will provide a model for other communities confronting climate displacement in the region and beyond.
Photographs taken by Simon Maybin

Join the conversation - find us on Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat and Twitter.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Investigations of murder cases would benefit from the data gathered at a body farm

You are dead.
Now what?
It's the start of a fascinating and eventful - if gory and smelly - journey, at least for your body as it decomposes.
Understanding decomposition can hold the key to solving murders, finding missing people and crucially recognising them, and that is why "body farms" exist.
Body farms are essentially outdoor laboratories where experiments using donated human cadavers investigate taphonomy - the science of decomposition.
Worldwide there are several such facilities: one in Australia, the others are in the US.
But now UK scientists, including Dr Anna Williams from the University of Huddersfield, are lobbying for one in the UK.
This page contains some images a number of readers might find disturbing.
At the British Science Association's annual Science Festival this week in Brighton, Dr Williams presented on the importance of body farms to science and why she believes a UK facility is needed.
"Much of what we know about human decomposition was discovered in US body farms," she said.
Image copyright SPL Image caption Insect clues: The rate at which blowfly pupae grow is dependent on temperature

"We know that the sequence of events in decomposition proceeds along the same path regardless of where the body is, but the timing is very different depending on many factors - moisture, temperature and insects are probably the most important."
But more nuanced factors may also influence decomposition - "such as bacteria already on, and in, the body; whether the person was obese, had been on antibiotics, was diabetic, or even whether they were a vegetarian or not."
So decomposition is anything but simple.
And add in to the mix the fact that the bodies of murder victims can be found on a woodland floor, sealed in a suitcase, buried in a shallow grave, encased in concrete, burnt, dismembered, naked, clothed, wrapped in plastic, and so on.
Traumatic injury is also variable: gunshot wound, stabbing, hanging the list goes on.
Body farm advocates point out the benefits of such facilities, including training dogs to sniff out dead bodies, recognising facial features and ancestry after decay, and even helping to work out how fingerprints change and whether DNA can be recovered after varying intervals of decomposition.
But what about the classic detective question on finding a dead body: "Time of death"?
This is much more difficult to pin down than TV dramas would have you believe, especially a few weeks and more after death.
Medical examiners often use insect colonisation on the body, but this is notoriously unreliable to apply from place to place as it depends on fickle local weather conditions.
Image copyright Anna Williams Image caption Pigs are used in UK experiments, but is their decomposition very different from humans?
Exciting new data published last year in the journal Plos One suggests that the succession of bacteria that come and go, feeding on the decaying body, may help scientists to more accurately pinpoint post-mortem interval.
This discovery was made by analysing bacteria scraped from the nose and ear canals of decomposing cadavers at the world's first body farm in Tennessee.
In the UK, all decomposition experiments use animals - usually pigs.
This does have some advantages.
Most obviously, rotting animals in our countryside is not as objectionable to people as rotting humans.
Indeed, it might be a challenge getting a local community to accept a body farm in its area.
The other advantage is that when pigs are used, multiple experiments can be set up where the conditions prior to decomposition can be varied to show different outcomes.
This has not been the case with human experiments.
As Dr Patrick Randolph-Quinney from the University of Central Lancashire explained, the number of human bodies used in experiments has rarely exceeded three or four individuals, and this limited number will not catch all of the possible outcomes of decomposition.
"It's little more than anecdotal observation without any real understanding or prediction of underlying processes - you might call it 'anecdata'," he told BBC News.
But, on the flipside, there are big disadvantages to using pigs.
Firstly, we really don't know whether pigs decompose similarly to humans, and whether they are a good substitute to use.
This is being actively investigated in the newly opened Australian body farm.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Australian body farm: More than 500 people have donated their bodies

The results are eagerly awaited.
But as Dr Williams said in her presentation at the science festival: "There can be no better substitute for humans in understanding human decomposition".
Dr Williams firmly believes that a UK body farm facility will allow forensic science to flourish in Britain, producing new data on decomposition bespoke to our climate and situation.
But she cautioned: "We need academics to collaborate and share data across the UK, and across the world - that way experiments have the best chance of being rigorous with larger sample sizes."
Dr Randolph-Quinney has a further ambition: "If we imagine a game of 'fantasy taphonomy', where we had enough money and resources to investigate human decomposition properly, we wouldn't necessarily use outdoor facilities."
"We might build a grave in the lab, where we could adequately control experimental variables such as temperature, humidity, and recover all the products such as body fluids, DNA, organic gases that a body gives off after death.
"This would allow us to model and predict the underlying processes in a scientific way.
We can't do that at present."
Either way human body donations are required.
This may not be a big problem: at both US and Australian facilities there is a waiting list of living donors ready, upon death, to give their body to forensic science.
I was sent for 'gay cure'

Before the legalisation of homosexuality in July 1967, gay men in the UK lived in fear of arrest, beatings and blackmail.
Image copyright AFP/Getty Image caption Houston is now the flood capital of the United States

Parts of the Houston region have been hammered by more than 50in of rainfall since Hurricane Harvey made landfall, setting new records for the US.
But why has the city become America's flood capital?
In April 2016 "historic" flooding hit Houston, with 17.6in (44.7cm) of rain dumped on the city in a single day.
The flood came only 11 months after another massive storm struck the city, dropping over a foot of rain.
Together, these two events caused 16 deaths and more than $1bn (777m) in damages.
Both pale in comparison to Hurricane Harvey, the impact of which has secured Houston's unenviable reputation as the US city most severely affected by floods.
Understanding why the risk to life and property is rising is crucial not only to the future of America's fourth-largest city, but to others around the world which share many of its problems.
Urban sprawl

Houston's unbridled, rapid growth is a primary factor.
The population of its metropolitan area is close to 6.8 million people and, with predictions of some of the country's fastest growth for the coming years, it is expected to top 10 million by 2040.
Interactive See how Houston has developed since 1984 2017 1984

Growth itself is not a problem, as it can create economic, social and environmental benefits for cities.
But poorly planned growth which fails to carefully manage land use - for housing, businesses and the infrastructure like roads, parks and sewers that cities need - can create problems and even lead to disasters.
Houston has long favoured light touch controls, which has led to haphazard development.
The city now covers an enormous area of more than 1,500 sq km.
It is the archetype of urban sprawl, where land is made readily accessible for real estate development on the city's ever expanding periphery.
Loss of habitat

This unplanned growth has led to many problems.
One is that vast acres of wetlands and prairie land - which soak up large amounts of rainfall - have been paved over.
Between 1992 and 2010, for example, White Oak Bayou in north-west Houston lost about 70% of its original wetlands.
During heavy rain the city's growing expanses of concrete generate runoff that clogs and sometimes overwhelms its complex network of waterways.
This includes creeks and bayous, as well as flood controls like levees and detention basins.
Successful wetland and prairie land protection would not itself have a major effect in reducing flooding caused by unprecedented rainfall like that delivered by Harvey.
Yet, protecting and restoring the natural areas provides an important contribution to making Houston less vulnerable to more moderate storms.
They also bring environmental benefits - providing fish and wildlife habitats, and cleaning polluted runoff that can sometimes enter from the city.
The artificially blue-coloured areas show water detected before and after the storm.
Interactive See how flood waters caused by Hurricane Harvey have covered low-lying areas After Before

A city for cars

Another problem is that investment in flood control infrastructure - things like channels, dams and reservoirs - has failed to keep pace with the expansion of the city.
Houston is a car-oriented city, with multi-billion dollar projects supporting one of the most advanced systems of roads and highways in the world.
Image caption Houston is a city built for cars

The goal is to keep traffic moving.
The mismatch between spending on flood prevention and roads can bring new challenges, as fresh tarmac is laid for motorists.
One example is the partially completed State Highway 99.
Once completed this 290km (180-mile) loop will be the longest in the nation - encircling the Houston area.
Further urban sprawl on the edges of the city will inevitably follow and without careful planning, large new tracts of impervious concrete will be laid.
The runoff generated can cause problems for residents when heavy rains arrive.
For example, since the 1980s, rainfall has increased 26% in the Brays Bayou watershed, but runoff has increased by 204%.
Another study suggests that an additional 3,500 households in the Sims Bayou watershed in the south of the city were exposed to flooding as a result of increased runoff.
What can be done?
The tragedy wrought by Hurricane Harvey offers an opportunity to plan for the rebuilding of a more resilient city.
The expansion of the city has led to short-term financial rewards for developers and builders, while local government has benefitted from an expanded tax base.
But they have not shared the risk presented by flooding - the costs of which are mostly passed on to residents and the national government.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption More than 3,000 people have been rescued in Houston alone

To survive on the Texas Gulf Coast in the coming century, the city and its surrounding region will have to make careful planning decisions to guide growth.
Better co-ordination between federal, state and local government bodies is sorely needed.
The city will also have to consider how it defends itself against storms.
Making huge investments in flood control infrastructure will be necessary if they are to keep pace with the rapid expansion of the population.
Around the world

While Harvey offers a dramatic example, devastating storms are becoming more frequent and severe around the world.
Rapid and poorly planned urbanisation, rising sea levels, and subsidence put the world's coastal cities at increased risk of flooding.
One World Bank study forecasts that global flood damage for large coastal cities could cost $1 trillion a year by 2050 unless action is taken.
There are cities that offer a hint of what can be achieved - both in the US and elsewhere.
Faced with more coastal storms and rising sea levels on the Atlantic Coast, Norfolk, Virginia, has adopted long-term strategies for guiding future land use and development.
For example, areas at low risk of flooding where there has so far been limited development will be transformed into high density and mixed income neighbourhoods.
In contrast, high risk areas with established neighbourhoods are to gradually retreat from shorelines, with housing buyouts, while key sewer and water utilities, and roads will be maintained rather than expanded.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Rotterdam's Maeslant surge barrier is part of the city's extensive flood prevention system

Rotterdam, in the Netherlands, provides another model.
Ninety percent of the densely populated city lies below sea level.
Its pioneering solutions to flooding entail living with the water, rather than trying to contain it.
It has installed underground garages, green roofs that absorb water and water plazas that serve as a kind of aquatic town square, while simultaneously acting as huge storage reservoirs when extreme rainfall occurs.
From the Norfolk and Rotterdam perspectives, flooding and climate change are not obstacles to economic development, but opportunities.
About this piece

This analysis piece was commissioned by the BBC from an expert working for an outside organisation.
Philip Berke is Professor of Land Use and Environmental Planning at Texas A&M University.
Edited by Duncan Walker
Image copyright Science Photo Library Image caption Chemist Thomas Midgley insisted that tetraethyl lead was safe

Leaded petrol was safe.
Its inventor was sure of it.
Facing sceptical reporters at a press conference in October 1924, Thomas Midgley dramatically produced a container of tetraethyl lead - the additive in question - and washed his hands in it.
"I'm not taking any chance whatever," Midgley declared.
"Nor would I... doing that every day."
Midgley was - perhaps - being a little disingenuous.
He had recently spent several months in Florida, recuperating from lead poisoning.
Some of those who'd made Midgley's invention hadn't been so lucky, which is why reporters were interested.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy highlights the inventions, ideas and innovations which have helped create the economic world in which we live.
It is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
On the Thursday of the week before Midgley's press conference, at a Standard Oil plant in New Jersey, a worker named Ernest Oelgert started hallucinating.
By Friday, he was running around the laboratory, screaming in terror.
On Saturday, with Oelgert dangerously unhinged, his sister called the police.
He was taken to hospital and forcibly restrained.
By Sunday, he was dead.
Within the week, so were four of his colleagues - and 35 more were in hospital.
Only 49 people worked there.
'The loony gas building'

None of this surprised workers elsewhere in Standard Oil's facility.
They knew there was a problem with tetraethyl lead.
As Gerald Markowitz and David Rosner note in their book Deceit and Denial: The Deadly Politics of Industrial Pollution, the lab where it was developed was known as "the loony gas building".
Nor should it have shocked Standard Oil, General Motors or the DuPont Corporation, the three companies involved with adding tetraethyl lead to gasoline.
Image copyright Science Photo Library Image caption An aerial photograph of DuPont's Deepwater factory site, where tetraethyl lead was developed

The first production line in Ohio had already been shut down after two deaths.
A third plant elsewhere in New Jersey had also seen fatalities.
Workers kept hallucinating insects - the lab was known as "the house of butterflies".
Better working practices could make tetraethyl lead safe to produce.
But was it really sensible to add it to petrol, when the fumes would be belched out on to city streets?
About a century ago, when General Motors had first proposed adding lead to petrol - in order to improve performance - scientists were alarmed.
They urged the government to investigate the public health implications.
Midgley breezily assured the surgeon general that "the average street will probably be so free from lead that it will be impossible to detect it or its absorption", although he conceded that "no actual experimental data has been taken".
Image copyright Science Photo Library Image caption Chemist Thomas Midgley with the Delco laboratory test engine

General Motors funded a government bureau to conduct some research, adding a clause saying it had to approve the findings.
Risky, but useful?
The bureau's report was published amid the media frenzy over Oelgert's poisoned workmates.
It gave tetraethyl lead a clean bill of health and was met with some scepticism.
Under pressure, the government organised a conference in Washington DC in May 1925.
The debate there exemplified the two extremes of approach to any new idea that looks risky, but useful.
In one corner: Frank Howard, vice-president of the Ethyl Corporation - a joint venture between General Motors and Standard Oil.
He called leaded petrol a "gift of God", arguing that "continued development of motor fuels is essential in our civilization".
Image copyright Alamy Image caption Dr Alice Hamilton argued the benefits of adding lead to petrol were outweighed by the risks

In the other corner: Dr Alice Hamilton, the country's foremost authority on lead.
She argued leaded petrol was a chance not worth taking.
"Where there is lead," she said, "some case of lead poisoning sooner or later develops, even under the strictest supervision."
Hamilton knew that lead had been poisoning people for thousands of years.
In 1678, workers who made lead white - a pigment for paint - were described as suffering ailments including "dizziness in the head, with continuous great pain in the brows, blindness, stupidity".
The Romans used lead in water pipes.
Lead miners often ended up mad or dead - and some correctly intuited that low-level, long-term exposure was also unwise.
"Water conducted through earthen pipes is more wholesome than that through lead," wrote the civil engineer Vitruvius, 2,000 years ago.
"This may be verified by observing the workers in lead, who are of a pallid colour."
Pollution v progress

Many societies still grapple with the general question on which Howard and Hamilton disagreed: how much pollution is a price worth paying for progress?
There's some evidence that as countries get richer, they tend initially to get dirtier and later clean up.
Economists call this the "environmental Kuznets curve", and it makes intuitive sense.
If you're poor, you prioritise material gains.
As your income grows, you may choose to spend some of it on a nicer, safer environment.
Image copyright Alamy Image caption The Roman civil engineer Vitruvius warned against the dangers of lead 2,000 years ago

But was lead-free petrol really such an expensive luxury?
True, the lead additive solved a problem: it enabled engines to use higher compression ratios, which made cars more powerful.
However, it was not the only way to solve the problem.
Ethyl alcohol had much the same effect and wouldn't mess with your head, unless you drank it.
Midgley knew this, having combined petrol with practically every imaginable substance, from iodine to camphor to melted butter.
Why did the petrol companies push tetraethyl lead instead of ethyl alcohol?
Researchers who have studied the decision remain puzzled.
Cynics might point out that any old farmer could distil ethyl alcohol from grain.
It couldn't be patented, or its distribution profitably controlled.
Tetraethyl lead could.
The crime connection

The US didn't tax lead in petrol until the 1970s, then finally banned it as part of clean air legislation, as the country moved down the far side of the environmental Kuznets curve.
Two decades later, in the 1990s, rates of violent crime started to go down.
There are many reasons why this might have happened, but the economist Jessica Reyes had an intriguing thought.
Children's brains are especially susceptible to chronic lead poisoning.
Is it possible that kids who didn't breathe leaded petrol fumes grew up to commit less violent crime?
Image copyright Alamy

Reyes could test her hypothesis: different US states phased out leaded petrol at different times.
By comparing the dates of clean air legislation with subsequent crime data, she concluded that more than half the drop - 56% - was because of cars switching to unleaded petrol.
Other researchers have found similar links between lead water pipes and urban homicide.
Disputed science and delayed regulation

You can put a dollar figure on the value of crime reduction, Reyes found.
It's about 20 times higher than the cost of de-leading petrol - and that's before you count other downsides of children breathing lead, like worse performance in school.
How did the US get this so wrong for so long?
Image copyright A Periam Photography / Alamy Stock Photo Image caption Asbestos continued to be widely used in construction despite the emerging evidence of its dangers

It's a tale of disputed science and delayed regulation, much like you could tell about asbestos, or tobacco, or other products we now know slowly kill us.
The problem is that people who want to ban things aren't always disinterested visionaries like Hamilton.
Sometimes they're obstructive cranks.
The only way to tell the difference is by conducting studies.
And, as Gerald Markowitz and David Rosner point out, "For the next four decades, all studies of the use of tetraethyl lead were conducted by laboratories and scientists funded by the Ethyl Corporation and General Motors".
More from Tim Harford:

How Diesel's engine changed the world

Battery bonanza: From frogs' legs to mobiles and electric cars

Why the falling cost of light matters

How a razor revolutionised the way we pay for stuff

And what of the scientist who first put lead in petrol?
By all accounts, Midgley was a genial man who may even have believed his own spin about the safety of a daily tetraethyl lead handwash.
But, as an inventor, his inspirations seem to have been cursed.
His second major contribution to civilisation was the chlorofluorocarbon, or CFC, which improved refrigerators, but destroyed the ozone layer.
In middle age, afflicted by polio, Midgley applied his inventor's mind to lifting his weakened body out of bed.
He devised an ingenious system of pulleys and strings.
They tangled around his neck, and killed him.
Tim Harford writes the Financial Times's Undercover Economist column.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
Its been three years since archaeologists uncovered a 4,000-year-old tomb near the Jerusalem Biblical Zoo in Israel.
They were surprised by what they found inside: numerous vessels containing date palms and myrtle bushes, neither of which were native to the area, and  strangest of all  the decapitated bodies of at least nine toads.
The tomb was uncovered prior to the expansion of a neighborhood in the Hahal Rephaim basin, which was fertile ground for settlement during the Canaanite period four millennia ago.
Excavators uncovered two settlements, two temples and several cemeteries in the area that provide new insight into the life of the local population at that time, according to excavation directors Shua Kisilevitz and Zohar Turgeman-Yaffe.
SPY SATELLITES, DRONES, HELP EXPERTS DISCOVER LOST CITY IN IRAQ FOUNDED AFTER ALEXANDER THE GREAT

For an archaeologist, finding tombs that were intentionally sealed in antiquity is a priceless treasure, because they are a time capsule that allows us to encounter objects almost just as they were originally left, they said on behalf of the Israel Antiquities Authority.
At that time, it was customary to bury the dead with offerings that constituted a kind of burial kit, which, it was believed, would serve the deceased in the afterworld.
When we removed the stone that blocked the tomb opening, we were excited to discover intact bowls and jars.
SPHINX, BABOON AND CAT STATUES STATUES FOUND IN ANCIENT EGYPTIAN BURIAL

In one of the jars, to our surprise, we found a heap of small bones.
The study of the bones  revealed at least nine toads.
Interestingly, they had been decapitated.
Israeli scholars believe the date palms and myrtle bushes were planted at the site intentionally, because they were not in their natural habitat, and that they may have come from a nearby orchard that was planted for the purpose of funerary offerings.
Experts think that the jar with the headless toads was also among the offerings.
ARCHAEOLOGISTS IN NORWAY MAY HAVE UNEARTHED A VIKING BOAT GRAVE

The date palm symbolized fertility and rejuvenation during the period, said Dr. Dafna Langgut of Tel Aviv University.
A 163-carat D flawless diamond, described as the largest ever put up for auction, will be unveiled in Hong Kong on Thursday.
D graded diamonds are colorless.
The diamond, which will be unveiled by jewelry specialist de Grisogono, is cut from a 404-carat stone named the 4 de Fevereiro that was discovered in Angola in February 2016.
A team of diamond cutting specialists spent 11 months cutting and polishing the gem, which will be auctioned as a 163-carat stone in Geneva, Switzerland on Nov. 14.
SCIENTISTS DISCOVER NEW FORM OF CARBON HARDER THAN DIAMONDS

After the unveiling, the diamond will be taken on a world tour, before heading to Geneva for auction.
In 2015 a perfect 100-carat flawless D diamond was sold at Sothebys New York for $22 million, including the buyers premium.
An uncut diamond the size of a tennis ball sold for $53 million Tuesday.
British jeweler Graff Diamonds bought the 1,109-carat stone, the Lesedi La Rona, which was mined in Botswana in 2015.
Follow James Rogers on Twitter @jamesjrogers
NASA's Earth-observing satellites can track the forces that create malaria outbreaks, and their data will soon help local communities make big strides toward warding off the deadly disease.
The Land Data Assimilation System (LDAS) project allows satellites from far above the Amazon rainforest in South America to track environmental factors (such as rainfall) and human activities (such as logging) that may attract the Anopheles darlingi mosquito, the host of malaria in the region.
NASA's Applied Sciences Program is funding the investigation into using the LDAS to predict malaria outbreaks.
William Pan of the Duke Global Health Institute, who is leading the project, said it could be ready to be implemented within a few years, and its analytical models can also be extended to help prevent the spread of Zika, dengue or other diseases.
[Why Use Satellites To Measure Rain?
(Video)]

By pinpointing areas with warm air temperatures that are likely to have calm ponds or puddles of water, the satellites provide data that Pan and his research team can use, in cooperation with the Peruvian government, to forecast malaria outbreaks down to the household level, NASA officials said in a statement.
Malaria is a deadly global disease that is transmitted by about 40 species of mosquitoes, according to NASA.
And in nations like Peru, it is difficult to assess where contaminated female mosquitoes are laying their eggs.
The insects look for warm and calm waters, which, according to NASA, can emerge in changing parts of the rainforest, depending on where rainfall accumulates and where logging ditches are dug.
The Amazon basin is witnessing a recent rise in malaria infections, which have particularly severe effects on young children and the elderly.
According to the World Health Organization's 2016 Malaria Report, Peru and Venezuela were each experiencing more than 20 percent spikes in estimated malaria cases as well as in estimated mortality rates.
People do not always experience their first symptoms of malaria where they contract the disease, so containing an outbreak is challenging.
Malaria is passed from female mosquitoes when they feed on blood, and frequently lay eggs as they have short life cycles of just two weeks.
Pan and his team can get data about precipitation, soil moisture, air temperature and vegetation from the LDAS, which folds in data from satellites such as Landsat, Global Precipitation Measurement, Terra and Aqua.
By showing where calm puddles and ponds are likely to form, the team can anticipate where malaria outbreaks are likeliest to occur.
"These models let us predict where the soil moisture is going to be in a condition that will allow for breeding sites to form," Ben Zaitchik, the project's co-investigator, said in the statement.
As NASA satellites detect rainfall, scientists can make predictions about where loggers are likeliest to enter the jungles  and, therefore, where they might catch malaria  since logs are easier to transport via timber floating, where there is a body of water they can travel upon.
Malaria is often a byproduct of deforestation, and several nations in the Amazon basin, like Peru, are home to extensive, and sometimes illegal, logging.
As the prediction models analyze the data from NASA's satellites, public health officials can make better-informed preparations by sending aid to people living near malaria breeding grounds in the country.
The project is now in the third and final year of its NASA grant, and Pan's team continues to refine the models.
The Peruvian government is already familiarizing itself with LDAS, according to NASA, and the malaria prediction tools should be ready for use within the next few years.
Colombia and Ecuador, which also have lands inside the Amazon basin, have expressed interest in the initiative.
Follow Doris Elin Salazar on Twitter @salazar_elin .
Follow us @Spacedotcom , Facebook and Google+ .
Original article on Space.com.
A pensioner in Brandenberg, Germany, was casting about with his metal detector last week when it gave an unusual bleep.
According to German media, its cause was what first appeared to be a nondescript but shiny lump of metal.
Then the 64-year-old hobbyist, Bernd Thlmann, gave it a quick test.
It was not magnetic.
This was odd.
Bernd had been scouring the terrain around Oranienburg in Brandenberg for some time.
He had some experience in what to expect to find.
After bringing it home and leaving it laying around for several days, he and his children began to do some digging on the properties of various metals

What they found caused them to became somewhat anxious.
He notified authorities.
He suddenly became the centre of a huge emergency services effort  including the evacuation and cordoning off of surrounding homes.
NAZI LINK

Men in hazmat suits moved into his house, and carefully packed his find into a special lead-lined container, which was itself put in a protective suitcase.
Now Bernds being investigated for possessing unauthorised radioactive substances.
Police have confirmed Bernds metallic find is radioactive.
And theyve also reportedly suggested a source.
Oranienburg was, during World War II, the location of a secret research facility.
It was working on enriching uranium oxide sourced from South America..

Its objective was to create weapons-grade plutonium.
This was to be the core a Nazi atomic bomb.
The research facility is long gone.
But it seems some rather telltale traces still remain.
PRIORITY TARGET

Britain and the United States were well aware of Hitlers atomic bomb ambitions.
They strove hard to disrupt it.
The daring raids by British Mosquito fighter-bombers and British-Norwegian saboteurs to destroy a nuclear research plant in Norway has been the subject of several books and films.
But some 16,000 bombs were dropped on the Oranienburg facility during the war.
It was completely destroyed.
Despite the fact the Soviets carefully scoured the site after steamrollering through Germany in 1945, its highly likely more radioactive material remains among the scattered rubble.
But Berndt doesnt want to tell police where he found his piece.
He wants to go back there to find more evidence of the Nazi bomb-making project.
The finder refuses to provide information on the exact location, a police statement reads.
This has landed Berndt in heavy water.
As his find was an unauthorised radioactive substance, an investigation has been initiated and the find seized as part of an ongoing criminal investigation.
Charges are yet to be pressed, however.
CLOSE CALL

Documents released earlier this year by the US National Archives reveal how close Nazi scientists came to developing the war-winning atomic bomb.
The APO 696 file is a survey of Nazi research concluded Hitler came close to assembling a basic warhead in 1944.
It includes testimony that such a weapon may even have been tested.
The file reports of German test pilot Hans Zinsser believed he saw a mushroom cloud near a nuclear research facility at Ludwgslust in 1944.
His log book  submitted as evidence to Allied investigators  reads; In early October 1944 I flew away 12-15 km from a nuclear test station near Ludwigslust (South of Lbeck).
A cloud shaped like a mushroom with turbulent, billowing sections (at about 7000 metres) stood, without any seeming connections over the spot where the explosion took place.
Strong electrical disturbances and the impossibility to continue radio communication as by lighting turned up.
A second pilot reportedly observed the same thing an hour later, and an Italian correspondent who saw the blast reported his observations to Mussolini.
This story originally appeared in news.com.au.
Maybe E.T.
has just been waiting for an invitation.
That potential solution to the Fermi Paradox is getting a test this week, with the debut of a suite of "cosmic welcome mats" designed to let intelligent aliens know that Earth is happy to receive them (as long as they wipe their tentacles first, of course).
One of the mats now graces the entrance to the Adelaide Convention Center in South Australia, where the 68th International Astronautical Congress (IAC) is being held from Monday to Friday (Sept. 25 to Sept. 29).
And a handful of other mats have been placed around the campus of nearby Flinders University.
[13 Ways to Hunt Intelligent Aliens]

Previous missives to E.T.
have generally included a fair bit of information about ourselves.
For example, the golden plaques affixed to NASA's Pioneer 10 and Pioneer 11 probes, the Golden Record flying aboard the twin Voyager spacecraft, and the radio message beamed toward a distant star cluster in 1974 by Puerto Rico's Arecibo Observatory all sought to let aliens know what we look like, among other things.
Such communiques may be too complicated (and too self-centered) to really draw aliens in, said experimental philosopher Jonathon Keats, who developed the welcome mats with Flinders University space archaeologist Alice Gorman.
So they aimed for simple.
"I think 'Welcome' is the simplest message of all," Keats told Space.com.
You can't assume journeying aliens will speak English, or any other human language, so he and Gorman didn't just grab a stack of mats off a Walmart shelf.
Instead, they came up with their own design, which features an amorphous red blob against a blue-and-purple background.
The mats are bordered by black, which stands for outer space.
The blob is the alien  a representation that Keats hopes E.T.
would recognize based on the shape's "otherness."
(Most creatures and objects on Earth have a defined geometric structure, and the red stands out strongly against the background, he said.)
The mats communicate "welcomeness" in a similarly abstract way.
There are four different versions of the basic design, and all mean to convey spatially that the blob fits in well with its surroundings, Keats said.
In addition, two of the designs evoke a biochemical reaction, with the blob/alien "agonist" slotting nicely into a "receptor."
A third version shows that the blob has room to grow, and the fourth features multiple blobs, suggesting that aliens of all kinds are welcome, Keats said.
Gorman's students will vacuum the mats every day during the IAC meeting, and then assiduously analyze the collected sediment to see which versions trapped the most dirt and dust  a proxy for "invitingness"  and how much of this gunk came from space.
(About 100 tons of extraterrestrial material hits our planet every day, the vast majority of which burns up in the atmosphere.)
These data will inform future iterations of the mat, which Keats hopes go global and beyond.
He'd like to get one on the doorstep of every person on the planet, as well as aboard the International Space Station, he said.
Whether or not the mats persuade E.T.
to step in for a drink, Keats said he would like the project to inject a little bit of invitingness into what he sees as an increasingly xenophobic world.
"My core audience is everybody," he said.
"We're all aliens."
The IAC isn't the end of the line for the cosmic welcome mats.
Keats and Gorman will unveil a new version and discuss the project on Oct. 11, at the STATE of AI Pop-Up Studio in Los Angeles.
To learn more, go to http://www.statefestival.org/program/2017/panel-the-cosmic-welcome-mat-designing-a-universal-greeting

Follow Mike Wall on Twitter @michaeldwall and Google+ .
Follow us @Spacedotcom , Facebook or Google+ .
Originally published on Space.com.
After years of being washed, perfumed and fed in ancient Egypt, the statue of a revered Egyptian deity was given a proper burial with other "dead" statues more than 2,000 years ago, a new study finds.
Ancient Egyptians buried the statue of the deity Ptah  the god of craftsmen and sculptors  with other revered statues, including those of a sphinx, baboon, cat, Osiris and Mut, in a pit next to Ptah's temple.
The statue of Ptah had likely sat in the temple for years, but it and the other sacred objects were respectfully buried after they accumulated damage and were declared useless by the ancient Egyptians, the researchers said.
[See Photos of the Ptah, Sphnix and Other Statues]

"We can consider that when a new statue was erected in the temple, this one [of Ptah] was set aside in a pit," said study co-researcher Christophe Thiers, director of the French-Egyptian Center for the Study of the Temples of Karnak.
"The other artifacts were also previously damaged during their 'lifetime' in the temple, and then they were buried with the Ptah statue."
Archaeologists discovered the pit in December 2014 at Karnak, an Egyptian temple precinct, and spent about a month excavating its rich assemblage.
The pit held 38 objects, including:

Fourteen statuettes and figurines of Osiris.
Eleven fragments of inlay from statues.
The inlay included that of an iris, a cornea, a false beard, a cap, a strand of hair and an inlay plaque.
Three baboon statuettes (representing the god Thoth).
Two statuettes of the goddess Mut (one with hieroglyphic inscriptions).
Two unidentified statuette bases.
One head and one fragmentary statuette of a cat (Bastet).
One small fragmentary faience stele (a stone slab) recording the name of the god Ptah.
One head of a statuette of a man in gilded limestone.
One lower part of a statue of the seated god Ptah, sawn and repaired.
One sphinx.
One unidentified metal piece.
It appeared that the artifacts were buried in a certain order.
After digging the pit, also known as a favissa (a cache of sacred objects that are no longer in use), the ancient Egyptians would have put down the lower part of Ptah's limestone statue.
The statue was large, and it probably took two to three people to carry it, the researchers said.
Next to the statue, the Egyptians would have placed a wooden effigy of the god Osiris that had metal appliqu, including a beard and two feathers in its crown.
Then, the other artifacts would have been distributed around these two artifacts, which were then covered with about 8 inches (20 centimeters) of backfill.
This is where the ancient Egyptians placed a statue of a small limestone sphinx.
The pit was then covered with more backfill.
At the top, the Egyptians placed a small male head made of gilded limestone, likely for protection, the researchers said.
The objects were made at different times, the researchers found.
The statue of Ptah dates to the New Kingdom; the style of the sphinx supports a late Ptolemaic date; and the gilded head dates to the early Ptolemaic period, the researchers said.
However, by studying the site's rock layers, the researchers found that the artifacts were buried by the temple's priests during the second half of the Ptolemaic period, between the second century B.C.
and the middle of the first century B.C., the researchers wrote in the study.
[7 Amazing Archaeological Discoveries from Egypt]

Rebirth awaits

The vast number of buried Osiris figurines and statues intrigued the archaeologists.
Osiris was the god of fertility and of the dead in the underworld, but also of rebirth.
It's possible the priests placed Osiris with Ptah because of his role in rebirth and regeneration, the researchers said.
"[Ptah] is waiting for rebirth," study lead researcher Guillaume Charloux, an archaeologist with the French-Egyptian Center for the Study of the Temples of Karnak, told Live Science.
"It's protected by the sphinx.
It's surrounded by the Osiris statues.
We have the feeling here that it's waiting for rebirth, like mummies of pharaohs."
The study was published online Sept. 21 in the journal Antiquity.
Original article on Live Science.
An Asian elephant in the El Paso Zoo in Texas has undergone two successful rounds of electrochemotherapy.
The elephant, 50-year-old Juno, underwent her second successful treatment Friday.
She was diagnosed with a malignant mass in her right mammary gland in January; she underwent her first electrochemotherapy treatment in March.
The El Paso Zoo is on the cutting edge in terms of the cancer treatment they are providing Juno, Dr. Jospeh Impellizeri, of Veterinary Oncology Services, said in a statement.
This type of treatment on large, exotic animals isnt getting done anywhere elsenot even Europe.
Its incredible.
The treatment was performed by Impellizeri, along with two veterinarians from the El Paso Zoo and the zoos staff.
According to the zoo, this is only the second recorded case of a cancerous mass in an elephant.
"The make up of elephants is that theyre able to sequester those tumors and they dont metastasize all over their body.
But we did want to treat this cancer simply because it was uncomfortable for her," said El Paso Zoo Director Steve Marshall.
THE WORLD OF ANIMALS

The electrochemotherapy treatment uses a chemotherapy drug thats infused into the tumor before an electric pulse draws the chemotherapy directly into the cancer cells.
Juno was put under anesthesia for an hour and a half for the treatment but is now alert and walking, according to the zoo.
The tumor is very big and the zoo said the electrochemotherapy allows for multiple treatments, unlike invasive surgery.
GORGEOUS, MAJESTIC WHITE GIRAFFES SPOTTED, CAPTURED ON VIDEO FOR FIRST TIME EVER

We broke the tumor down into four quadrants and treated each quadrant with the electrochemotherapy, Impellizeri said in March after the first treatment.
This is an extremely large tumor, the largest Ive ever treated, but if you break it down into quadrants, you can treat it like four or five smaller tumors.
Treating the tumor and giving an accurate prognosis is a challenge for the zoo.
There is no record of a malignant mammary gland tumor in all of veterinary literature, and cancer of any kind is extremely rare in elephants, according to the zoo.
As a result, the zoo cant predict how the cancer will progress and using ultrasounds and x-rays to determine if the cancer is spreading isnt possible because of Junos size.
However, the zoo expects Juno to survive.
"It does not take on the characteristics of a tumor thats going to spread throughout her body, but it was growing in size," said Marshall.
Junos treatment was featured on Nat Geo Wilds show Animal ER in August.
Catholic lore has it that in the depths of the winter of 1224, things looked grim for a group of monks who, trapped by snow, were starving inside a friary in southern Italy.
Then a knock at the door alerted the monks to a life-saving delivery: a sack of bread, emblazoned with a fleur-de-lis, symbol of the French court.
The story has it that angels ferried the sack to the Friary of Folloni near Montella, and that the sender was St. Francis of Assisi, the future patron saint of animals, who was living in France.
Now, researchers in Denmark say they may have proved the Catholic legend to be true, IBT reports.
Or at least the bread part.
Analysis of fragments of fabric from the sack, preserved over the centuries as a relic, reveal the fibers date to 1220 to 1295, and that they likely came in contact with bread.
The friary has kept the textile for more than 700 years, using it as altar cloth before encasing the few remaining fragments in a shrine in 1732.
Writing in the journal Radiocarbon, the scientists say the bread likely came in contact with the fibers before they were preserved as a relic.
Using carbon analysis, the team found traces of ergosterol, a steroid found in mold that could be a biomarker for baking, Southern Denmark University says in a news release.
Lead researcher Kaare Lund Rasmussen says "it is possible" the bread could have dated back to that "cold winter's night in 1224."
As to how the sack got there, he adds, "This is maybe more a question of belief than science."
(A Hawaiian curse prompts tourists to return lava rocks.)
This article originally appeared on Newser: Scientists Think One Catholic Legend Is Really True
A snake lover in the U.K. has been found suffocated to death near his pet python, according to news reports.
The Sun reports that Dan Brandon, 31, was found at his home in Church Crookham, Southern England, in the room in which he kept his snakes.
His pet python was out of its pen.
Authorities confirmed Monday that Brandon died of asphyxiation, according to The Sun.
An investigation has been launched into whether the python was involved in Brandons death.
The Telegraph reports that, if the python did kill Brandon, it would be the first case of its kind in the U.K.

REPTILIAN STANDOFF BREWING IN NEVADA

Brandon was an experienced snake handler, according to The Independent.
Images posted to social media show Brandon with a number of snakes, including a large yellow Burmese python.
The Guardian reports that a JustGiving fundraising page has been set up in Brandons memory to raise money for the World Wildlife Fund.
On August 25th Dan unexpectedly passed away at home, explained his friend, John Cottrell, on the page.
He was obsessed with snakes, spiders, birds and all wildlife, in his memory we have set up two fundraising pages, one for WWF and one for RSPB.
WHY ALLIGATOR ATTACKS ARE SPIKING IN FLORIDA

We have struggled when looking for photos for his funeral to find any when he isn't holding a spider, snake, small bird, toad, slow worm, hedgehog, feeding a fox, stroking cattle, befriending a cat or dog so these charities seemed the perfect choice.
In memory of you Dan.... who we will all miss SO much, Cottrell added.
New evidence proves that the ancient Egyptians constructed the Great Pyramid at Giza by transporting 170,000 tons of limestone in boats.
It has long been known that the rock was extracted eight miles away in Tura and that granite used in the monumental structure was quarried 533 miles away in Aswan.
However, archaeologists have disagreed over how the material was transported to Giza, now part of modern-day Cairo, for construction of Pharaoh Khufus tomb in 2600 BC.
Now that mystery could be a step further to being solved after the discovery of an ancient scroll of papyrus, a ceremonial boat and a network of waterways, reported the Mail on Sunday.
The new evidence shows that thousands of laborers transported 170,000 tons of limestone along the River Nile in wooden boats built with planks and rope.
2,000-YEAR-OLD TOMBS FROM ROMAN PERIOD FOUND IN EGYPT

The 2.5-ton blocks were ferried through a system of specially designed canals before arriving at an inland port built just yards away from the base of the Great Pyramid.
The papyrus scroll is the only firsthand record of how the pyramid was built, and was written by an overseer named Merer.
Click for more from The Sun.
The association was present in both men and women, according to a new study in the journal CHEST

GLENVIEW, IL, September 27, 2017 - Increased arterial stiffness is a known predictor of cardiovascular diseases in different populations, including healthy subjects and patients with hypertension, diabetes, or renal disease.
A new study examining arterial stiffness in a large population determined that both restrictive spirometry pattern and reduced forced vital capacity (FVC) were associated with a higher risk of arterial stiffness not only in men but also in women.
The investigators found that arterial stiffness increased fourfold when FVC decreased.
Their findings are published in the August issue of CHEST.
Arterial stiffness refers to an artery's diminished ability to expand and contract with changes in pressure.
The less elasticity an artery has, the harder the heart has to work to pump blood through it, which can contribute to cardiovascular problems.
Studies have shown that diseases like chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) that impede breathing can lead to arterial stiffness.
For this study, investigators used brachial ankle pulse wave velocity (baPWV) to measure arterial stiffness.
"The most significant results of our study were that FVC was negatively associated with the brachial ankle pulse wave velocity (baPWV) level in both genders, and restrictive spirometry pattern was positively associated with increased arterial stiffness in both males and females after adjustment for other clinical variables," explained lead investigators Jin-Shang Wu, MS, Yi-Ching Yang, MPH, and Chih-Jen Chang, MD, Department of Family Medicine, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Taiwan.
This study included more than 2,900 participants (1,709 men and 1,252 women from 18-88 years of age) who underwent a health examination at National Cheng Kung University Hospital from October 2006 to August 2009.
Some prior studies had shown an association between arterial stiffness and reduced FVC but failed to define pulmonary function impairment as the restrictive type.
Other studies used only a few subjects or only focused on men.
"To our knowledge, this is the first study finding an inverse relationship between restrictive spirometry pattern/reduced FVC and arterial stiffness," said the authors.
"The mechanism of reduced lung function and arterial stiffness is not fully understood, but their relationship may be linked by a cardiovascular risk factor and systemic inflammation."
As the rate of cardiovascular disease continues to climb around the globe, finding more ways to identify problems early becomes increasingly important.
This link between reduced spirometry pattern and increased arterial stiffness is an important piece of information that may provide better insights for intervention and prevention.
"Clinically, assessment and follow-up of arterial stiffness should be considered in individuals with restrictive spirometry pattern," advised the authors.
For hundreds of years, Chinese calligraphers have used a plant-based ink to create beautiful messages and art.
Now, one group reports in ACS Omega that this ink could noninvasively and effectively treat cancer cells that spread, or metastasize, to lymph nodes.
As cancer cells leave a tumor, they frequently make their way to lymph nodes, which are part of the immune system.
In this case, the main treatment option is surgery, but this can result in complications.
Photothermal therapy (PTT) is an emerging noninvasive treatment option in which nanomaterials are injected and accumulate in cancer cells.
A laser heats up the nanomaterials, and this heat kills the cells.
Many of these nanomaterials are expensive, difficult-to-make and toxic.
However, a traditional Chinese ink called Hu-Kaiwen ink (Hu-ink) has similar properties to the nanomaterials used in PTT.
For example, they are the same color, and are both carbon-based and stable in water.
So Wuli Yang and colleagues wanted to see if Hu-ink could be a good alternative material for PTT.
The researchers analyzed Hu-ink and found that it consists of nanoparticles and thin layers of carbon.
When Hu-ink was heated with a laser, its temperature rose by 131 degrees Fahrenheit, much higher than current nanomaterials.
Under PPT conditions, the Hu-ink killed cancer cells in a laboratory dish, but under normal conditions, the ink was non-toxic.
This was also the scenario observed in mice with tumors.
The researchers also noted that Hu-ink could act as a probe to locate tumors and metastases because it absorbs near-infrared light, which goes through skin.
###

The authors acknowledge funding from the National Natural Science Foundation of China and the Key Technologies R&D Program of China.
The study is freely available here.
The American Chemical Society, the world's largest scientific society, is a not-for-profit organization chartered by the U.S. Congress.
ACS is a global leader in providing access to chemistry-related information and research through its multiple databases, peer-reviewed journals and scientific conferences.
ACS does not conduct research, but publishes and publicizes peer-reviewed scientific studies.
Its main offices are in Washington, D.C., and Columbus, Ohio.
To automatically receive news releases from the American Chemical Society, contact newsrooom@acs.org.
Follow us on Twitter | Facebook
Leesburg, VA, September 25, 2017 - Significant differences were found among women receiving mammography at a cancer center versus those visiting a mobile mammography van, according to an ahead-of-print article scheduled to be published in the December 2017 issue of the American Journal of Roentgenology (AJR).
Mobile mammography units have increasingly been used to address patient health care disparities, the article stated, but to date there are limited data comparing mobile units to stationary sites.
The authors found that the cancer centers' population is older and more adherent to guidelines, while the mobile mammography population exhibited greater racial and marital diversity, higher recall rate, and lack of adherence to follow-up recommendations.
"By identifying these characteristics, we can develop programs and materials that meet these populations' needs and behaviors, ultimately increasing mammography screening and follow-up rates among underserved populations," said the researchers, led by Elizabeth Stanley of the Department of Radiology at the Medical University of South Carolina.
Titled "Effectiveness of a Mobile Mammography Program," the article notes that the significantly lower adherence to recall recommendations in patients using the mammography unit may be because of difficulties in access to the breast imaging center because patients must go to the cancer center for follow-up.
Patients using the mobile unit were more likely to be uninsured and also showed a greater racial and marital diversity, thereby meeting the unit's mission of providing resources to adults living in target areas who have difficulty accessing health care, the authors stated.
The results could be used to develop specific educational programs and targeted interventions to increase mammography screening rates among underserved populations, the authors said.
For example, a text-messaging reminder system could be adopted to increase mammography adherence among the mobile unit patient population.
###

Founded in 1900, ARRS is the first and oldest radiology society in the United States, and is an international forum for progress in radiology.
The Society's mission is to improve health through a community committed to advancing knowledge and skills in radiology.
ARRS achieves its mission through an annual scientific and educational meeting, publication of the American Journal of Roentgenology (AJR) and InPractice magazine, topical symposia and webinars, and print and online educational materials.
ARRS is located in Leesburg, VA.
Babies classified as low birth weight (under 2.500 grams) are at risk of iron deficiency, which is linked to impaired neurological development.
A long-term randomized study now shows that providing such babies with iron supplements can prevent behavioral problems at school age.
The study, led by Staffan Berglund of Ume University in Sweden, is published in the journal Pediatric Research which is published by Springer Nature.
The findings are part of ongoing Swedish research involving 285 late preterm and term infants who weighed between 2000 grams and 2500 grams at birth, and were defined as being marginally low birth weight.
This group represents a significant number of all births.
The babies were randomly selected to receive either no iron supplements, or specific doses from the age of six weeks to six months.
Research up until now has shown that those babies given iron supplements had a lower risk of suffering from iron deficiency or iron deficiency anemia by the time they were six months old.
When the participants were tested again when they were 3 and a half years old, the ones in the supplement group had fewer behavioral problems than those who went without extra iron.
In this study, 207 of the participants from the initial investigation were tested at the age of seven.
Berglund and his fellow researchers wanted to see if the early iron intervention influenced the children's cognitive and neurobehavioral abilities.
The Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children was used to assess the children's cognitive abilities.
Their parents completed two standardized questionnaires about their children's behavior.
No major differences were found in the intelligence scores of the children in the two separate test groups.
The magnitude of the intervention group to show externalizing problems was however significantly reduced compared to that of the children in the other.
They had lower levels of aggressive and rule-breaking behavior, and did not suffer as many thought problems.
The thought problems in question were recently shown to be the best independent predictor of autism spectrum disorders.
This suggests that the behavioural and emotional profiles of low birth weight children who did not receive iron supplements include different symptoms of subclinical neurodevelopmental problems.
"Our findings suggest that iron supplementation may have long-lasting effects on behavioural functions in children born of a low birth weight," says Berglund.
"This clinically important benefit from early iron supplementation gives further support to recommend iron supplementation of all low birth weight children, including those with marginally low birth weight."
On the population level this finding is important, since marginally low birth weight infants represent a relatively large proportion of all births.
Up to five percent of infants born in high income countries and fifteen percent of those in low income countries are defined as such.
###

Reference: Berglund, SK.
et al (2017).
Effects of iron supplementation of low birth weight infants on cognition and behavior at 7 years - a randomized controlled trial, Pediatric Research DOI is 10.1038/PR.2017.235
PHILADELPHIA - A pilot program that uses big data to predict which lung cancer patients will require a trip to an emergency department (ED) successfully anticipated a third of all ED visits over a two week trial period, and was further able to identify which patients were at high risk and low risk of requiring such care.
The predictive model was designed by researchers at the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania with the eventual goal of developing a tool for early intervention that will help patients avoid ED visits.
They will present their data as an oral abstract at the American Society of Therapeutic Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) 2017 Annual Meeting in San Diego (Abstract #2022).
Lung cancer is the most common diagnosis among cancer patients who visit emergency departments, most frequently because of infection, pain management, or other symptoms related to their disease.
Roughly 40 percent of lung cancer patients will visit the ED during the course of their treatment, and 60 percent of those visits result in hospital admission.
In addition, reports have shown lung cancer dwarfs other cancer types in terms of ED visits among cancer patients, making up 33 percent of all such visits according to one recent study.
These visits come with a cost for patients - financially and psychologically - as well as for the healthcare system itself.
The cost of lung cancer care overall in America is expected to increase to $14.73 billion by 2020, according to the National Cancer Institute.
"The need to be able to anticipate these visits is crucial, but there are very few studies that assess risk factors in a way that allows for early intervention by a clinician," said the study's lead author Jennifer Vogel, MD, a resident in Radiation Oncology at Penn.
The model developed by Penn uses patient information pulled from electronic medical records.
It identified key comorbidities like hypertension, liver disease, and cardiac arrhythmia.
It also flagged specific symptoms like nausea, vomiting, and weight loss, as well as the values of lab results, such as abnormal platelet count, creatinine, and white blood cell count.
"Our model pulls all of this together and weighs each factor to determine a personalized risk for each patient at any given point in time," said senior author Abigail T. Berman, MD, MSCE, an assistant professor of Radiation Oncology at Penn and the associate director of the Penn Center for Precision Medicine.
"It also gives physicians real-time alerts when a patient is deemed to be at high risk."
After developing the model with data from 2,500 patients and validating it with a second set, the researchers put it to use during a two-week pilot program.
During that time, the model was able to anticipate 68 of the 207 ED visits (33 percent) required by lung cancer patients.
The predictions also showed promise in categorizing patients into risk levels.
Of the 131 patients identified as "high-risk", 13 (10 percent) presented to the ED.
For the 678 patients grouped as "low-risk", only 10 (1.5 percent) required an ED visit.
This demonstrates that the model successfully differentiates between high and low risk patients, as patients designated as high risk were 6.6 times more likely to visit the ED compared to those designated as low risk.
"Our hope is that triage nurses and physicians will be able to use this information to intervene before an ED visit is necessary," Berman said.
These interventions can include reaching out to the patient to preemptively schedule an outpatient visit, taking action to better manage the symptoms that would lead to the ED visit, or other proactive measures.
Researchers say the next step is to categorize the reasons for each ED visit and the actions physicians took during the pilot phase.
They also plan to incorporate natural language processing elements into the model in order to improve its predictive value.
###

Penn Medicine is one of the world's leading academic medical centers, dedicated to the related missions of medical education, biomedical research, and excellence in patient care.
Penn Medicine consists of the Raymond and Ruth Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania (founded in 1765 as the nation's first medical school) and the University of Pennsylvania Health System, which together form a $6.7 billion enterprise.
The Perelman School of Medicine has been ranked among the top five medical schools in the United States for the past 20 years, according to U.S. News & World Report's survey of research-oriented medical schools.
The School is consistently among the nation's top recipients of funding from the National Institutes of Health, with $392 million awarded in the 2016 fiscal year.
The University of Pennsylvania Health System's patient care facilities include: The Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania and Penn Presbyterian Medical Center -- which are recognized as one of the nation's top "Honor Roll" hospitals by U.S. News & World Report -- Chester County Hospital; Lancaster General Health; Penn Wissahickon Hospice; and Pennsylvania Hospital -- the nation's first hospital, founded in 1751.
Additional affiliated inpatient care facilities and services throughout the Philadelphia region include Good Shepherd Penn Partners, a partnership between Good Shepherd Rehabilitation Network and Penn Medicine.
Penn Medicine is committed to improving lives and health through a variety of community-based programs and activities.
In fiscal year 2016, Penn Medicine provided $393 million to benefit our community.
Memory acts like an anchor, reminding us of past experiences that have made us who we are today.
Attempts to boost it, particularly as we age, have sprouted cottage industries of supplements and brain games.
In parallel, researchers have been pursuing pharmaceutical interventions.
In some of the latest work on this front, one team reports in ACS Chemical Neuroscience that they have identified a novel compound that enhances long-term memory in animal studies.
In the past two decades, scientists have discovered key molecular paths that can lead to the formation of long-term memories in fruit flies, mice and rats.
For example, the activation of a particular protein called CREB -- which stands for "cAMP response element binding" -- is required to stow memories for the long term.
Building on this finding, Alan P. Kaplan and colleagues have been working to find compounds that help spur CREB into action.
The researchers screened thousands of small molecules for potential drug candidates that activate CREB and found a compound called HT-0411 that was promising.
Further testing showed that HT-0411 doesn't directly activate CREB.
It does so indirectly by inhibiting the enzyme monoamine oxidase B, which modulates dopamine and ultimately leads to CREB-mediated gene expression.
The researchers then tweaked parts of that compound's structure and administered it to mice and rats.
In memory tests, the animals that received the candidate molecule scored much higher than the control group, and they showed no signs of behavioral side effects such as changes in anxiety levels.
###

The authors acknowledge funding from Dart NeuroScience LLC.
The abstract that accompanies this study is available here.
The American Chemical Society, the world's largest scientific society, is a not-for-profit organization chartered by the U.S. Congress.
ACS is a global leader in providing access to chemistry-related information and research through its multiple databases, peer-reviewed journals and scientific conferences.
ACS does not conduct research, but publishes and publicizes peer-reviewed scientific studies.
Its main offices are in Washington, D.C., and Columbus, Ohio.
To automatically receive news releases from the American Chemical Society, contact newsroom@acs.org.
Follow us on Twitter | Facebook
New research by the University of Kent, Butterfly Conservation and the Centre for Ecology & Hydrology shows that citizen scientists can play a role in gathering meaningful information to inform long-term monitoring of biodiversity trends such as butterfly population change.
Although citizen scientists are increasingly engaged in gathering biodiversity information, trade-offs are often required between public engagement goals and reliable data collection.
But the new study, entitled Using citizen science butterfly counts to predict species population trends, shows that mass-participation science can serve to complement standardised biodiversity monitoring.
Researchers, led by Dr Emily Dennis, a visiting research associate at Kent's School of Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science and senior ecological statistician at Butterfly Conservation, used data from the Big Butterfly Count (BBC).
This is an established UK citizen science project organised annually by Butterfly Conservation to produce population change estimates for 18 common butterfly species comparable to standardised monitoring data collected by skilled recorders.
UK butterflies are well suited for citizen science; they are conspicuous, popular and, in comparison to many other insects, easy to identify.
In addition, the country's high human population density and tradition of amateur natural history recording provide a ready source of participants.
The results, say the researchers, show that the BBC data provide the potential for additional or improved assessments of biodiversity change.
For example, there is increasing interest in the biodiversity of urban areas, both as potential refuges for species whose habitats have been degraded in intensively farmed countryside and for the opportunities it affords for human-wildlife interactions and associated human well-being.
The researchers conclude that the results 'establish BBC as an example of a citizen science win-win; a project focused on outreach and public engagement that generates meaningful scientific output'.
###

Using citizen science butterfly counts to predict species population trends (Emily Dennis, Byron Morgan, Tom Brereton, David Roy and Richard Fox) is published in the journal Conservation Biology.
See: http://onlinelibrary.
wiley.
com/ doi/ 10.
1111/ cobi.
12956/ full

For further information contact Martin Herrema at the University of Kent Press Office.
Tel: 01227 823581/01634 888879

Email: M.J.Herrema@kent.ac.uk

News releases can also be found at http://www.
uk/ news

University of Kent on Twitter: http://twitter.
com/ UniKent

Note to editors

Established in 1965, the University of Kent - the UK's European university - now has almost 20,000 students across campuses or study centres at Canterbury, Medway, Tonbridge, Brussels, Paris, Athens and Rome.
It has been ranked 22nd in the Guardian University Guide 2018 and 25th in the Complete University Guide 2018, and in June 2017 was awarded a gold rating, the highest, in the UK Government's Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF).
In the Times Higher Education (THE) World University Rankings 2015-16, it is in the top 10% of the world's leading universities for international outlook and 66th in its table of the most international universities in the world.
The THE also ranked the University as 20th in its 'Table of Tables' 2016.
Kent is ranked 17th in the UK for research intensity (REF 2014).
It has world-leading research in all subjects and 97% of its research is deemed by the REF to be of international quality.
In the National Student Survey 2016, Kent achieved the fourth highest score for overall student satisfaction, out of all publicly funded, multi-faculty universities.
Along with the universities of East Anglia and Essex, Kent is a member of the Eastern Arc Research Consortium (http://www.
uk/ about/ partnerships/ eastern-arc.
html ).
The University is worth 0.7 billion to the economy of the south east and supports more than 7,800 jobs in the region.
Student off-campus spend contributes 293.3m and 2,532 full-time-equivalent jobs to those totals.
Kent has received two Queen's Anniversary prizes for Higher and Further Education.
Olive oil has long been a popular kitchen staple.
Yet producing the oil creates a vast stream of wastewater that can foul waterways, reduce soil fertility and trigger extensive damage to nearby ecosystems.
Now in a study appearing in ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering, scientists report on the development of an environmentally friendly process that could transform this pollutant into "green" biofuel, bio-fertilizer and safe water for use in agricultural irrigation.
During processing, olives are crushed and mixed with water in mills.
The oil is separated out of this mixture, and the dirty water and solid residue are discarded.
In Mediterranean countries, where 97 percent of the world's olive oil is produced, olive mills generate almost 8 billion gallons of this wastewater annually.
Disposing of it has become problematic.
Dumping it into rivers and streams can potentially contaminate drinking water and harm aquatic life.
Pumping it onto farm land damages the soil and reduces crop yields.
Some researchers have tried burning the wastewater with mixtures of solid waste from the mills or waste wood.
But these approaches have either been too costly or have produced excessive air pollution.
Mejdi Jeguirim and colleagues took a different approach.
They wanted to see if they could convert olive mill wastewater (OMW) from a pollutant into sustainable products for practical use.
The researchers first embedded OMW into cypress sawdust - another common Mediterranean waste product.
Then they rapidly dried this mixture and collected the evaporated water, which they say could be safely used to irrigate crops.
Next, the researchers subjected the OMW-sawdust mixture to pyrolysis, a process in which organic material is exposed to high temperatures in the absence of oxygen.
Without oxygen, the material doesn't combust, but it does thermally decompose into combustible gases and charcoal.
The researchers collected and condensed the gas into bio-oil, which could eventually be used as a heat source for OMW-sawdust drying and the pyrolysis process.
Finally, they collected the charcoal pellets, which were loaded with potassium, phosphorus, nitrogen and other nutrients extracted from the breakdown of OMW-sawdust mixture during pyrolysis.
Used as biofertilizers, the researchers found that after five weeks these pellets significantly improved plant growth, including larger leaves, compared to vegetation grown without them.
###

The authors acknowledge funding from the PHC Utique program of the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Higher Education and Research; the Tunisian Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research in the GEDURE project; and the MICA Carnot Institute.
The abstract that accompanies this study is available here.
The American Chemical Society, the world's largest scientific society, is a not-for-profit organization chartered by the U.S. Congress.
ACS is a global leader in providing access to chemistry-related information and research through its multiple databases, peer-reviewed journals and scientific conferences.
ACS does not conduct research, but publishes and publicizes peer-reviewed scientific studies.
Its main offices are in Washington, D.C., and Columbus, Ohio.
To automatically receive news releases from the American Chemical Society, contact newsroom@acs.org.
Follow us on Twitter | Facebook
LAWRENCE -- According to the National Institute on Drug Abuse, more than 90 Americans die every day by overdosing on opioids.
While heroin and synthetic opioids such as fentanyl account for part of the crisis, in 2015 about 2 million people in the U.S. suffered from substance use disorders related to prescription opioid pain relievers.
Now, a recent study from the University of Kansas School of Pharmacy has uncovered disturbing trends in prescribing opioids for nonmalignant chronic pain (defined as pain lasting for more than three months not associated with cancer).
Published in the journal Pain Medicine, the analysis of 690 million outpatient visits related to nonmalignant chronic pain between 2000 and 2007 suggests prescriptions of opioids are influenced by non-medical factors such as a patient's form of insurance, geographic region and patient's relationship to the provider.
These differences are difficult to interpret based on the complexity of treatment and the challenges of determining appropriate opioid prescribing.
Among the key findings:

Patients age 35-49 were 1.47 times more likely to receive opioids compared with other age groups

Patient visits with primary care physicians were 1.83 times more likely to result in opioid prescriptions than specialty physicians

Patients with publicly funded insurance were more likely to receive opioids compared with patients with private insurance

Patients in the U.S. South were more likely to be prescribed opioids

Patients of Hispanic ethnicity were less likely to receive opioids

"More patients are dying from opioid overdoes than car accidents, based on 2015 CDC data," said Rafia Rasu, lead author of the study and associate professor of pharmacy practice at KU.
"We take so many precautions about car seats and seat belts, but this is obviously a serious public health problem right now that needs immediate attention as more people are dying now from drug overdose."
Rasu and co-author Maureen Knell of the University of Missouri Kansas City School of Pharmacy performed statistical-software analysis on data from the National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey to determine predictors of opioid use based on patient-specific factors.
The researchers found social and cultural factors seem to play too large a factor in determining which patients receive opioid prescriptions.
"Prescribers aren't always following guidelines," Rasu said.
"The prescription has to be appropriately written, need to verify if a patient already has tried something else as a first-line therapy or not.
From a snapshot, this is what we see and this needs to be looked at more carefully and longitudinally.
Prescribers could more closely follow guidelines like those from the American Academy of Pain Medicine and CDC."
Rasu recommended more use of "prior authorization" when prescribing opioids -- a constraint requiring physicians and others to get approval from an insurance provider to prescribe a medication.
"It's a technique that requires prior authorization so they need to take an extra step to get opioids," she said.
"Effective pain coping strategies and standardized protocol and education curriculum may help to change the culture.
Opioids help to relieve pain, but much more caution should be taken as they can be dangerous to some patients as opioids possess addictive properties.
Recent national priority to promote prescription drug monitoring program showed promising results with patient safety and health."
Hispanic patients were 30 percent less likely to receive opioid prescriptions than non-Hispanic patients.
"This could be due to a lack of insurance coverage or ability to pay," the authors wrote.
"It could also be due to possible language and/or cultural barriers, resulting in underreporting of pain and instilling more physician fear concerning their patients' ability to safely take opioids."
The study showed cultural factors could play a role in prescribing opioids as well.
The research revealed patient visits in the Southern region of the United States were 1.36 times more likely than those in the Northeast region to list treatment with opioid pain relievers, which correlates with a higher rate in the number of opioid-related deaths in the Southern region.
"It could be due to attitudes towards pain management and norms of practice we possess in different clinical settings.
We have differing expectations," Rasu said.
"This needs to be looked at -- why is there geographical variation?
What needs to be done?"
Rasu hopes her research results will influence stakeholders up and down the decision-making process.
"Especially policymakers," she said.
"They need to look at it carefully as well as public health officials and health care providers.
They need to understand these things are happening around the nation.
Also pharmacists, nurses, physicians -- everyone involved in taking care of these patients -- should take a look at this."
Based on data from the VKontakte social network, researchers at Higher School of Economics and the Vienna Medical University have found a relationship between students' academic performance and their closest social environment.
The study results were published in PLOS ONE.
People's tendency to network socially with those who share their characteristics is one of the key driving forces in building and shaping social connections.
Academic achievement appears to be one of the areas in which similarities lead to connections.
There are two main reasons why friends tend to have similar academic performance.
First, they can influence one another academically, e.g.
by helping friends who struggle in class.
Second, they may choose peers with similar academic performance as friends.
Understanding why a certain group of friends shares the same level of academic performance is not always easy and may require looking at the history of their friendship over time.
The authors of this paper found a way to overcome this limitation.
Instead of conducting a series of surveys, they gathered data on VKontakte interactions of 6,000 school and college students over 42 months.
"One would assume less differentiation based on academic achievement in a digital environment where anyone can connect with anyone else.
The reality, however, is different.
Academic achievement is still an important consideration for making friends online, and students' social circles tend to become even more homogeneous over time," said the study's author Ivan Smirnov, Junior Research Fellow of the HSE Institute of Education.
It turns out that the key reason behind homogeneity is not a change in students' academic performance, but a change in friendship networks.
Given the initially even distribution of good and poor performers within a network, over time students tend to establish new connections with peers who perform at the same level and unfriend those who are the least similar to them in terms of academic achievement.
These findings may be important for understanding how social reproduction of inequality works.
Being enrolled in a highly selective university gives one access not only to educational resources but also to social connections which may help one's future career.
However, even if a graduate of a less prestigious school gets enrolled in a highly-selective university, they may restrict their opportunities for upwards social mobility by continuing to mix mainly with peers from the same background rather than the most successful and highly performing ones.
This finding can have important implications in the digital age where social networks serve as the main source of information for many young people.
For example, more than 70% of young Russians surveyed rely on VKontakte to learn about Russian and global news.
By design, social networks mainly tend to show each user content shared by their friends.
The study findings suggest that more and less academically successful students may end up being segregated in different parts of the digital space.
Moms may be notorious worriers, but babies of anxious mothers may also spend more time focusing on threats in their environment, according to a team of researchers.
In a study, researchers used eye-tracking technology to measure how long babies spent looking at happy, neutral and angry faces.
They found that the babies with anxious moms had a harder time looking away from an angry face -- which they could view as a threat -- than babies whose moms were not anxious.
Koraly Prez-Edgar, professor of psychology at Penn State, said the findings -- recently published in the journal Emotion -- could help give clues about which children are at risk for developing anxiety later in life.
"Once we learn more about the pathways to anxiety, we can better predict who's at risk and hopefully help prevent them from needing treatment later on," Prez-Edgar said.
"Treatment is difficult for the child and parent, it's expensive and it doesn't always work.
If we can prevent anxiety from developing, that's a whole lot better.
Let's find out which kids are at the highest risk and intervene."
Previous research has found that focusing too much on threat could potentially increase anxiety, and some forms of therapy focus on turning attention away from threat as a way to lower anxiety.
"Paying too much attention to threat, even as infants, could possibly set up this cycle.
The more you fixate on threat, the more opportunity you have to see the world as a threatening place, which could help lead to more anxiety," Prez-Edgar said.
"Additionally, we think that risk factors in biology and potentially mom's anxiety could also make that more likely."
To examine the relationship between a mother's anxiety and her baby's attention to threat, a research team led by Prez-Edgar; Kristin Buss, professor of psychology at Penn State; and Vanessa Lobue, assistant professor of psychology at Rutgers University, recruited 98 babies between the ages of 4 and 24 months.
The babies' mothers answered questions about their anxiety levels, and the babies were placed in front of a screen that was equipped with an eye tracker -- a strip that ran along the bottom of the monitor and followed the movement of the babies' irises using infrared.
As each baby focused on the screen, their gaze was measured while happy, neutral and angry faces appeared one at a time.
Once the baby was focused on a face, a second image was flashed in their peripheral vision to distract them.
"By the time you're a few months old, a reflex develops where you'll automatically turn and look if something pops up in your peripheral vision," Prez-Edgar said.
"This became a conflict for the babies, because they were focused on the face but then had this reflex to turn and look."
The researchers found that the more anxious a baby's mother was, the more time her baby spent looking at the angry faces before turning to look at the image in their peripheral vision.
This suggests that the babies with anxious moms had a harder time disengaging from a potential threat in their environment.
Additionally, the researchers found that the age of the baby did not matter.
The babies with anxious moms spent a longer time looking at the angry face whether they were four or 24 months old, suggesting a potential genetic element.
"It doesn't seem like the babies are learning to pay more attention to threat from their anxious moms.
If that were true, the older babies might have more trouble turning away because they've been around their moms longer than the younger babies," Prez-Edgar said.
"This seems to suggest that there may be a shared genetic or biological component."
Prez-Edgar said the results give powerful clues about where to keep looking to learn more about how anxiety develops in children.
In a future study, Prez-Edgar, Buss and Lobue will take a closer look at how mother's anxiety affects babies over time, instead of at one instance.
###

Santiago Morales, first author and Penn State graduate; Kayla M. Brown, Penn State; Bradley C. Taber-Thomas, Penn State; Kristin A. Buss, Penn State; and Vanessa LoBue, Rutgers University, also worked on this study.
The National Institute of Mental Health (grant R21 MH103627) supported this research.
New Rochelle, NY, September 27, 2017-Pharmaceutical companies developing Orphan Drugs are increasingly partnering with direct-to-consumer (DTC) genetic testing firms to identify individuals with rare diseases, in a trend that is raising concerns related to privacy, drug costs, and rising healthcare-related financial burden for consumers.
An in-depth look at the enormous positive potential and concomitant dangers of these evolving corporate relationships and their impact on consumers and the healthcare system is published in Genetic Testing and Molecular Biomarkers, a peer-reviewed journal from Mary Ann Liebert, Inc., publishers.
The article is available free on the hGenetic Testing and Molecular Biomarkers website until October 27, 2017.
In the article "Direct-to-Consumer Genetic Testing and Orphan Drug Development," coauthors Matthew Mason, James Levenson, MD, and John Quillin, PhD, Virginia Commonwealth University School of Medicine, Richmond, discuss the dynamics and key factors that affect these two sectors of the healthcare industry.
The authors examine the science behind DTC genetic testing and the industry's market growth, how drugs for rare diseases are regulated, the potential for innovation and applying genetic testing results to orphan drug development, and suggested oversight and safeguards needed to protect patients from threats to their privacy and possible price-gouging.
"This paper provides an excellent overview as well as a thoughtful perspective of the interactions between the commercial developers of orphan drugs and the patients and families that they aim to serve who are afflicted with rare genetic diseases," says Genetic Testing and Molecular Biomarkers Editor-in-Chief Garth D. Ehrlich, PhD, FAAAS, Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, Executive Director, Center for Genomic Sciences and Center for Advanced Microbial Processing, Institute for Molecular Medicine and Infectious Disease, Drexel College of Medicine (Philadelphia, PA).
###

About the Journal

Genetic Testing and Molecular Biomarkers is an authoritative peer-reviewed journal published 12 times per year online with open access options and in print that reports on all aspects of genetic testing, including molecular and biochemical based tests and varied clinical situations; ethical, legal, social, and economic aspects of genetic testing; and issues concerning effective genetic counseling.
Tables of content and a free sample issue may be viewed on the Genetic Testing and Molecular Biomarkers website.
About the Publisher

Mary Ann Liebert, Inc., publishers is a privately held, fully integrated media company known for establishing authoritative peer-reviewed journals in many promising areas of science and biomedical research, including Human Gene Therapy and OMICS: A Journal of Integrative Biology.
Its biotechnology trade magazine, GEN (Genetic Engineering & Biotechnology News), was the first in its field and is today the industry's most widely read publication worldwide.
A complete list of the firm's 80 journals, books, and newsmagazines is available on the Mary Ann Liebert, Inc., publishers website.
BINGHAMTON, NY - People who are presented with political statements contradictory to their own beliefs tend to think harder and produce better arguments, according to research from Binghamton University, State University of New York.
Cengiz Erisen, a research associate in the Center on Democratic Performance at Binghamton University, along with fellow researchers David Redlawsk (University of Delaware) and Elif Erisen (Hacettepe University), looked at the effects of presenting people with information that conflicted with their political ideologies.
The researchers recruited 541 subjects from the Amazon crowdsourcing marketplace Mechanical Turk who leaned either liberal or conservative politically.
They introduced the subjects to statements from a mock political candidate on the topics of illegal immigration, economic crisis and the nuclear pursuits of Iran.
Half of the subjects were presented with statements incongruent with their political beliefs (e.g.
conservatives were given liberal statements) and the other half were given statements in line with their beliefs.
Subjects were then asked to share their supporting thoughts and opposing thoughts on the candidate's statements.
The results showed that incongruent information significantly alters how people think about politics.
The researchers found that, far from convincing people to change their minds, the new information reinforced their existing beliefs and actually made people think longer and harder, and with more in-depth arguments, about how they defended them.
"Our robust findings...suggest that resisting a counter view or supporting one's own ideological viewpoint triggers deeper and more effortful information processing, leading to recall from memory of more thoughts and rationales and recognition of different dimensions of the issue," said Erisen.
"This might be telling us something about the nature of motivated reasoning: people resist other political views not by few narrow-minded utterances blaming or downgrading the 'other'; they put effort into constructing opposing thoughts that are rich in content and volume.
Whether they are opposing the counter ideological statement or supporting a statement in line with their own ideology, people produce thoughts of better quality when they defend their views."
Erisen believes that policymakers need to be aware of the results of the rhetoric they use.
"The more they disregard the other side or oppose the contradictory or opposing policy statement, the public will follow that.
The less exchange of information, the more the conflict will be," he said.
###

The paper, "Complex Thinking as a Result of Incongruent Information Exposure," was published in American Politics Research.
The collaboration of researchers from RUDN University (Russia), Centro de Qumica Estrutura (Portugal) and Baku State University (Azerbaijan) proposes a new potential way to produce initial compounds for many chemical industries, including pharmacy, cosmetics, dyes and liquid crystals production.
The new method of synthesis at a room temperature with high yields described in two articles published in Journal of Organometallic Chemistry and in Inorganica Chimica Acta.
Cyanosilylation is the addition of cyanogroups - NC to silyl groups, which include silicon and another inconstant component called radical, labeled with 'R' on the scheme below.
Assymetric addition of these groups to chemical compounds with =C=O groups leads to the formation of a variety of enantiomerically enriched compounds.
These may act as the new prospective materials and initial substances for the chemical industry.
Enantiomers are optical isomers that contain the same atoms and that are mirror images of each other, but despite that are not identical and may have different chemical and physical properties.
Precisely these properties make them so promising.
The process of cyanosilylation is driven by additional agents called catalysts.
Catalysts are mediating the reaction path, but they do not change themselves, and quit the process without any transformations at the end.
Catalysis allows the reaction to proceed faster and more intensively even at lower temperatures or over a wider pressure range.
Catalytic asymmetric cyanosilylation has been extensively studied in recent years due to the significant utility of the products of this reaction -- cyanohydrin trimethylsilyl ethers.
They are the key starting materials in the syntheses of substantial chemical products, e.g., -hydroxy aldehydes, -hydroxy acids, -amino alcohols, etc.
The first group is used in colourants, pharmaceutical, fungicide and odourant synthesis, the second is essential forl food production and pharmaceuticals, and the third group is useful for the household chemicals and cosmetics.
It's notable that all these compounds are easy to produce from this type of ethers through only one-step synthesis.
The main synthetic route for the preparation of cyanohydrin trimethylsilyl ethers is the addition reaction of trimethylsilyl cyanide (TMSCN) that contains both cyanogroup and silyl component to carbonyl compounds (those with =C=O groups, as mentioned earlier).
Trimethylsilyl cyanide is a source of cyanide that is safe and easy to handle, if compared to HCN, NaCN and KCN.
"Currently a variety of organo- and metal catalysts have been employed in this reaction.
These protocols have many disadvantages, such as low yield, long reaction time, harmful solvents, etc.
Thus, in this project we have introduced new types of catalysts for cyanosilylation of aldehydes" - says Atash Gurbanov, Organic Chemistry Department, RUDN University, the leading author of the paper.
The proposed suggestion is arylhydrazone in complex with Cu(II) and Co(II/III).
Apart fro the radicals (and again we will see the 'R' letter) arilhydrazone contains aril group (aromatic ring where one hydrogen is lacking) and two atoms of nitrogen, one of which is in double chemical bond with carbon.
Arilhydrazones are easy to produce and they are extensively studied by chemists.
Below you may see the complexes they form with cobalt and copper.
These complexes act as homogeneous catalysts for the cyanosilylation of aldehydes (both aromatic ones and those without aromatic rings) with trimethylsilyl cyanide.
The researchers argue that this reaction proceeds even "at room temperature in methanol, providing cyanohydrin trimethylsilyl ethers with good yields (77?89 %)."
The ways to promote the reaction yield are also discovered for those two groups of aldehydes, the chemists say.
The fauna of deep seabed tends to be relatively unknown due to the difficulty of collecting samples at great depths.
A research team from the A Graa Marine Biology Station in Galicia undertook four oceanographic expeditions in the waters off the northwest coast of the Iberian Peninsula that have led to the discovery of several new species that inhabit the abyssal plains.
Now they describe two eyeless species of millimetric proportions.
The seabed of the continental shelf and slope is home to rich communities of fauna.
In 2002, 2003, 2008 and 2009, the A Graa Marine Biology Station of the University of Santiago de Compostela (USC) undertook various oceanographic expeditions to study these ecosystems.
While each of the different campaigns had different objectives, they all sought to identify and categorise these benthic fauna -- animals that live on the seabed -- as they are very rare and not well known.
As a result of these searches, at a depth of a thousand metres, several new species have been discovered.
A study from the Galician university has just described two of them as new crustaceans belonging to the families Photidae and Corophiidae, which they have named Photis guerrai and Pareurystheus vitucoi.
Both are small, blind species measuring just a few millimetres.
"This group of crustaceans is very important in oceans because they represent the base of the trophic chain in many marine ecosystems.
Some of the most common adaptations of animal species at these depths include, among many others, the absence of vision structures and a smaller size, which enables them to withstand the high pressures", Ramiro Rodrguez, the USC researcher leading the study published by the journal Zootaxa, in collaboration with the Autonomous University of Madrid, tells Sinc.
Deep ecosystems are very different from those found in more superficial coastal waters.
This medium does not receive sunlight and, as a result, there are no macroalgae, so primary production is limited to chemosynthesis -- produced by a chemical energy source.
Despite what was initially believed, however, abyssal plains are not lifeless zones.
These areas are home to rich animal communities that feed on the organic material deposited gradually from the water column", adds Rodrguez Tato.
Two crustaceans, both without eyes but very different

These two marine animals have in common their lack of eyes.
In an environment not reached by sunlight -- that is, in perpetual darkness -- for many species, the orientation systems are centred more on chemical sensory receptors than on visual organs.
But because they belong to different families, the two species are very distinct.
The first, a member of the Photis genus -- which is very common in coastal waters, with highly characteristic lateral cephalic protrusions called cephalic lobes -- is one of the few species in this group that lacks eyes.
"Only three other of the 69 species in existence lack this visual organ", according to the scientist.
Furthermore, the cephalic lobes in Photis guerrai are pointed rather than rounded.
The Pareurystheus genus, on the other hand, is much less common, with most members found in the waters of Japan.
Pareurystheus vitucoi is the first to be recorded in the northwest Atlantic.
This animal has a fifth pair of highly modified and developed thoracic appendages, unlike P. vitucoi.
It is small-sized and white in colour.
"It is unique in its genus, as it is the first to be described as lacking eyes", states the scientist.
However, the scientists find it hard to explain their behaviour, as it is difficult to observe these animals in situ.
"They are probably detritivorous species that live on the seabed by digging galleries in which to find shelter and food, the most common method used by animals in this group that inhabits these depths", notes Rodrguez Tato.
Different types of dredges were used to collect samples, in this case three trawlers, each designed to extract a particular type of sample on a specific type of seabed.
"The communities on our country's abyssal plains are not yet very well known, as these two species are just a small fraction of the results of these campaigns.
I found ten new species that I am still working on.
These are just two of them", the researcher concludes.
Heidelberg, Germany - The latest iteration of the Cherenkov Telescope Array's (CTA's) science case, Science with the Cherenkov Telescope Array, was made available today via the CTA website library and arXiv (1709.07997) and will be published in a special edition of the International Journal of Modern Physics D in the coming weeks.
The work includes more than 200 pages that introduce and elaborate on CTA's major science themes and place CTA in the context of other major observatories.
"The release of this document represents a major milestone for CTA, and it details the breadth and the richness of the science that will be done with the observatory over the next decade," says CTA Co-Spokesperson Prof. Rene Ong.
"The document would not have been possible without the hard work of literally hundreds of CTA Consortium members over a period of many years."
CTA will be the foremost global observatory for very high-energy gamma-ray astronomy over the next decade and beyond.
The scientific potential of CTA is extremely broad: from understanding the role of relativistic cosmic particles to the search for dark matter.
CTA will explore the extreme Universe, probing environments from the immediate neighbourhood of black holes to cosmic voids on the largest scales.
With its ability to cover an enormous range in photon energy from 20 GeV to 300 TeV, CTA will improve on all aspects of performance with respect to current instruments.
And its wider field of view and improved sensitivity will enable CTA to survey hundreds of times faster than previous TeV telescopes.
CTA will seek to address a wide range of questions in astrophysics and fundamental physics that fall under three major study themes: understanding the origin and role of relativistic cosmic particles, probing extreme environments and exploring frontiers in physics (Chapter 1).
"The Key Science Projects described in the document - surveys and deep observations of key objects - will provide legacy data sets of lasting value and will provide important input for the planning of CTA's user programme," said CTA Spokesperson Prof. Werner Hofmann.
Some of the most promising discoveries will come from a survey of our Milky Way galaxy, which should discover more Galactic sources for improved population studies and for advancing our understanding of the origin of cosmic rays (Chapter 6); the search for the elusive dark matter with models not accessible by other experiments (Chapter 4); and the detection of transient phenomena like gamma-ray bursts and gravitational wave events associated with catastrophic events in the Universe (Chapter 9).
"For me, the most exciting aspect of CTA is the potential for truly unexpected discoveries," says CTA Project Scientist, Prof. Jim Hinton.
"CTA pushes to shorter timescales, higher energies and more distant objects.
Pushing back the frontiers in astronomy always leads to something truly new and exciting, and now we're all just itching to get started."
It has been a decade since science planning for CTA started, resulting in a series of publications in a special edition of Astroparticle Physics in 2013.
The current work began that same year with an organized effort by the CTA Consortium to develop CTA's Key Science Projects (KSPs) in 2013.
After three years of development and refinement that included internal and external reviews, the KSPs were incorporated into a single document: Science with the Cherenkov Telescope Array.
Some 10 million people worldwide suffer from Parkinson's disease -- a debilitating condition that causes degeneration of brain nerve cells that control movement.
The exact reasons for this degeneration remain unknown.
A study published in open-access journal Frontiers in Computational Neuroscience uses a new approach to model the strength of connections within the brain's basal ganglia.
Determining how these differ between healthy and Parkinsonian patients could help scientists understand why individual brains malfunction -- and lead to customized therapies specific to the particular pattern of neural degeneration in an individual Parkinson's sufferer.
Basal ganglia: malfunction causes Parkinson's

The basal ganglia are a system of neuron clusters, or nuclei, connected to each other and to many other parts of the brain.
These ganglia are associated with a number of functions including control of voluntary movements, procedural learning, and habit formation, and their dysfunction leads to neurological disorders such as Parkinson's disease and Tourette's syndrome.
"The brain is a complicated organ with many interconnecting systems.
At its center, the basal ganglia is one of its most interesting and interconnected regions.
Improved experimental methods are now enabling us to discover more about it, revealing the great complexity of the basal ganglia," says Abigail Morrison of the Institute of Neuroscience and Medicine, Jlich Research Center, Germany.
Every brain is different

Scientists can examine physical connections within the basal ganglia, but many knowledge gaps remain about their strength.
"We need to understand how the strength of connections in the brain's basal ganglia change when someone develops Parkinson's disease," says Morrison.
"It's also important to remember that every brain is different -- what is true for one Parkinsonian patient might not be true for another."
To understand what's going on in an individual brain, the team devised a way to model this variability.
They hope this can be used to develop a computational approach that is complementary to clinical practice.
This could lead to the creation of customized therapies, specific to the particular pattern of neural degeneration in an individual Parkinson's sufferer.
Genetic algorithm helps understand neural connections

There are two main obstacles to accurate modelling of the basal ganglia: the lack of reliable data describing the strength of these connections, and the large variability between subjects.
To take these into account, the team decided to generate the parameters for their basal ganglia model using a genetic algorithm.
Genetic algorithms are based on natural selection processes that mimic evolution.
In nature, a bird with a harder beak has an advantage foraging for insects in the bark of a tree, and so has a higher probability of reproducing.
After many generations, this process can ultimately result in a woodpecker.
Analogously, in a genetic algorithm, large numbers of potential solutions are generated, combined, and adapted, until a desired genetic product is reached.
"We turned to the genetic algorithm to generate connections between the nuclei and their strengths computationally.
This allowed us to make lots of different network configurations that represent different possible brain connections in individuals," explains co-author Jyotika Bahuguna.
The team used electrophysiological data from rat brains as criteria for healthy and Parkinsonian conditions.
The genetic algorithm generated more than 1,000 possible configurations for the activity occurring in each condition, which were then analyzed for both groups.
"The approach is similar to a weather forecasting technique where predictions for a variety of weather systems are made using different initial configurations of weather conditions," explains Morrison.
A tool to understand Parkinson's progression?
The team found a broad overlap between the strength of individual neural connections in healthy and Parkinsonian brains.
However, when they looked at the global network activity in response to stimulus, it was easy to determine whether a network configuration was healthy or Parkinsonian.
A detailed analysis of these networks, especially the ones which lie on the boundaries between healthy and diseased, might shed light on how a brain transitions from a healthy to a Parkinsonian state.
More importantly, it could help identify therapeutically feasible options that would allow transition from a Parkinsonian state back to a healthy state.
"It is important to realize that Parkinson's disease is dynamic.
We have a stylized picture of the effects of neurodegeneration, but we need to remember that the patterns of degeneration are variable and are different in each individual," concludes Morrison.
"Future clinical approaches incorporating computational methods could incorporate the variability present among the patients.
This would allow treatment to be customized to compensate for the specific pattern of degeneration exhibited by a patient, to try to restore healthy dynamics."
RUDN chemists and their colleagues developed an innovative method of crystallisation.
This approach allowed to produce new complex mercuric compound with hybrid organic and inorganic ligands and highly unusual structure.
Compounds such as these can be used to create molecular machines -- molecules capable of mechanical work.
The results were published in Inorganic Chemistry.
In this work scientists synthesised the substances called coordination complexes, containing coordination chemical bonds created between acceptor and donor atoms with common electron pair.
These complexes were produced through the solvometric method by means of increased pressure, and at the temperature above boiling point at normal atmospheric pressure level.
To obtain this compound, the scientists employed non-covalent interactions (hydrogen and halogen bonds) to assemble molecular building blocks into supramolecular architectures with precise dimensions, topologies, and motifs.
"We evidence as assemblies are formed by a combination of several noncovalent interactions, including stacking interactions between the chelate rings and several anionic coligands, conventional - interactions, and -hole based chalcogen bonding interactions" -- said the leading author Ghodrat Mahmoudi, Assistant Professor in Inorganic Chemistry, RUDN University.
"We extended our research and made it more specific in order to to get a better understanding of the role non-covalent interactions play in chemistry.
This research is a logical continuation of our work on analysis and characterization of anion-, and -hole interactions in metal complexes.
The subject is of great interest to experts in inorganic chemistry.
Our results would contribute to extending the knowledge of these interactions" -- continued the author.
However, this work has an application in another field, apart from fundamental inorganic coordination chemistry -- namely in supramolecular chemistry, which concerns 'over-molecular' interactions.
This branch of chemistry studies more complex systems bonded by non-covalent interactions.
The remarkable characteristic of the complexes produced in RUDN research is their ability to form coordination polymers and don't stop the process on this stage.
These polymers can form self-assembled 2- and 3-dimensional supramolecular reticulate architectures if situated in different solution.
Such a property might find a use in the production of molecular machines.
The researchers studied chemical properties of this new material by means of elemental analysis (detection of mass content of different chemical elements in a compound and their ratio), infrared spectroscopy (this method allows to find particular elements in combination because of their different light absorbing capacity), and single-crystal X-ray diffractometry, which shows the structure of compound through the X-ray diffraction of this structure.
Besides experimental measurements, the chemists conducted calculations within the framework of Density Functional Theory, a method that allows to calculate electronic molecular structure with wave functions of atoms.
This theory was employed in order to investigate the structure of the new compounds.
Such a combination of different methods made it possible to increase the accuracy of results.
The team has also systematically studied the influence of the halide/pseudohalide ligands (those compounds which act as donors of the electron pair) and metal salts on the chemical and structural identity of the products.
Computerised face recognition is an important part of initiatives to develop security systems, in building social networks, in curating photographs, and many other applications.
Systems that allow a computer to estimate with precision a person's age based on an analysis of their face are discussed in the International Journal of Applied Pattern Recognition.
Jayant Jagtap and Manesh Kokare of the Department of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering, at the Shri Guru Gobind Singhji Institute of Engineering and Technology, in Vishnupuri, Nanded, India, suggest that age classification adds a useful layer to such security systems, customer relationship management, and of course for surveillance.
The team has carried out a detailed survey of age classification systems to reveal the pros and cons of each and to point new research in the right direction for the development of an even more accurate algorithm than any that currently exists.
Indeed, their survey reveals that despite the best efforts of developers there is no real-time highly accurate algorithm for age classification yet in existence.
The existing age classification systems commonly use geometric ratios of facial features and analysis of wrinkles in the skin.
One of the problems facing developers of such a tool is that databases containing images of a person's face tend not to accumulate images at different ages.
This limits how well an algorithm might be trained based on a database of photos at known ages.
While there are many serious tools and many spurious or fun tools available on the internet, there are no public systems that allow a computer to guess how old you are with useful accuracy.
This may well be a positive point to make from the personal privacy point of view but not for the wider implications of face recognition and age categorization.
###

Jagtap, J. and Kokare, M. (2017) 'Human age classification via face images: a survey', Int.
Applied Pattern Recognition, Vol.
4, No.
3, pp.246-260.
We all know the situation: You walk across a square and another pedestrian is walking towards you.
Now if neither of you changes course, a collision is inevitable.
For a long time, researchers have been grappling with the question of how people behave in such situations.
Knowing this is important when it comes to optimising the design of public squares with regard to traffic or creating escape routes that fulfil their purpose even in the event of a mass panic.
Mathematicians from the universities in Wrzburg and Nice have now presented a new solution approach to this problem.
They believe: "It's all just a game!"
Avoidance is the decisive factor

Avoidance: According to Alfio Borzi, this is the most important factor when modelling pedestrian motion patterns mathematically.
After all, nobody wants to clash with an oncoming pedestrian on their way from A to B. Borzi holds the Chair of Mathematics IX (Computational Science) at the University of Wrzburg.
Together with postdoc Souvik Roy and French mathematician Abderrahmane Habbal, he tried to cast human paths into an equation.
The scientists have now published their findings in the journal Royal Society Open Science.
"When the paths of two pedestrians cross, it basically comes down to the following question: What is the optimal solution of this conflict that is satisfactory for both parties," Alfio Borzi explains.
Just walking straight on would obviously not be helpful for either side.
And if only one of them alters course, that person might feel treated unfairly.
Finding the balance

In fact, there are numerous possibilities how people could behave in such a situation.
So a purely mechanical description of the situation is not beneficial.
"This would take us to the image of the donkey between two identical haystacks that cannot decide which one to eat and so starves to death," Borzi says.
Therefore, the mathematicians used the game theory by John F. Nash as the basis for their models.
The Nash equilibrium is a central concept of this theory.
The equilibrium has been reached when each player in a game chooses exactly the one strategy that offers the best solution possible for him and all co-players.
Therefore, each player is still pleased with his choice of strategy in hindsight; they would make the same choice again.
Or, as Alfio Borzi puts it: "Each player gets the best possible solution, so they are all happy."
Combined with the Brownian motion

In a next step, Borzi and his colleagues combined the game theory approach with another important mathematical equation: the Fokker-Planck equation which goes back to Albert Einstein.
Among others, it describes over which distances comparably large particles are "pushed around" by tiny molecules.
A discovery made by Scottish botanist Robert Brown led to this equation.
In 1827 while examining pollen suspended in water under the microscope, he had observed that the pollen grains' movement is completely erratic and random.
"The Fokker-Planck equation describes the probability of all movement processes, i.e.
of all possible motions of a body from A to B," the mathematician explains.
Combined with the game theory, it is also suitable to model the movement of larger crowds of people.
Experiments confirm calculations

The new equation works reliably, at least for two persons crossing a room and whose paths meet in the process.
Borzi and his colleagues were able to verify this during practical experiments.
In fact, the actual paths taken are surprisingly similar to the calculated curves.
In further studies the mathematician wants to find out whether this agreement still exists under modified specifications.
For this purpose, he is currently looking for cooperation partners, e.g.
from the field of psychology.
After all, he believes that this is also an issue for behavioural research.
According to Borzi, it is obvious to transfer the concept of game theory to human motion patterns: "There are signs in current research that more and more fields of biology can be described with this theory," the mathematician says.
For example, when two animal populations compete for one habitat.
In this case, too, looking for the best possible solution for both sides could lead to the optimal outcome.
It is no wonder then that the mathematician gets philosophical: "Maybe our whole life is just a game after all!"
The silting of rivers and streams leads to problems for fish, mussels, and other aquatic organisms because their habitats disappear.
However, not only intensive agriculture and erosion are destroying these habitats.
Now a study conducted by researchers at the Technical University of Munich (TUM) refutes this wide-spread view.
In order to save the species living in the river basin - and protect people from the threat of devastating floods - rivers need more space, diversity, and freedom.
The subject of the study was the Moosach, a tributary of the Isar and located right at the Weihenstephaner "doorstep" of the TUM.
The Moosach largely flows between the Munich gravel plain and tertiary hill country in an artificial bed.
Every few years the river has to be excavated to remove several thousand cubic meters of mud.
The tertiary hill country, 65 million years old, is among the areas with the highest erosion rates.
However, less than one percent of the erosion material remains on the ground and the siltation problem cannot be solved by reducing the erosion.
This result was provided by the analysis of riverbed samples over the course of several years by Professor Karl Auerswald from the Chair of Grassland Studies and Professor Jrgen Geist from the Chair of Aquatic Systems Biology.
"The prevention of erosion alone, as water and fisheries management have long demanded, does not then help river beds," says Professor Auerswald.
Fortified and dammed as well as straightened and deepened over many decades, the rivers lack their natural flow behavior.
Likewise, the floodplain landscape is lacking buffer function and interplay with the river during flooding.
The Moosach diagnosis: "a channel, no longer a river" can be transferred to all rivers in Bavaria and worldwide, says the TUM professor.
The Disappearance of Natural Change

The two TUM scientists just published the results of their study in the international journal Land Degradation & Development.
The title, "Extent and causes of siltation in a headwater stream bed: catchment soil erosion is less important than internal stream processes," shows how important the throughflow is for the riverbed.
Namely the cavities between the gravel filled with oxygen-containing water gravel constitute the primary refuge of small and micro-organisms as well as the egg-laying site for various river fish.
Even a thin sediment layer suffices to seal these interstices.
"The entry of erosion material also occurs under natural conditions," Auerswald explains.
"Under natural conditions, however, the riverbed is constantly being relocated and the cavity system is cleared from the inundated floodplain by the groundwater flow."
Because rivers have been straightened and channeled, these floodplain dynamics disappear just as the natural inflow from below has greatly decreased.
Humankind initially intervened in the course of the rivers with good reason: In order to protect cities from flooding, to drain swamps, and to push back cholera and typhus, at the start of the 19th century, rivers began to be straightened and forced into canals.
Thus, land was also won for further settlement.
The floodplain landscapes, important for sediment retention and natural flood protection, became dysfunctional more and more.
Thus, the rivers lacking in shores and natural water inflow lack the possibility of change.
But it is precisely these differences that are decisive for the biodiversity of a body of water and for its wealth of species in the water and below.
Auerswald warns: "River floodplains must be off-limits"

The right measure is lacking for Auerswald: "As is so often the case, humans continue down a path that was initially correct, even if he's already well past the goal."
In the case of local planning and construction decisions, the floodplain is "always the loser."
Auerswald advises, as he has for many years, to once again give the rivers the freedom to determine their own shape.
This means, consequently, that the river could shape its bed during renaturation measures.
"Whatever floodplains are still around must absolutely be off-limits," he says, warning against the unchecked need of the cities for land to develop - and in view of his model calculations on future flood events: "We would do well to allow the rivers to meander on their own again."
###

Publication: Karl Auerswald und Jrgen Geist: Extent and Causes of Siltation in a Headwater Stream Bed: Catchment Soil Erosion is Less Important than Internal Stream Processes, Land Degradation & Development, 6 September 2017.
DOI: 10.1002/ldr.2779

Link: http://onlinelibrary.
wiley.
com/ doi/ 10.
1002/ ldr.
2779/ full

Kontakt: Prof. Dr. Karl Auerswald

Technical University of Munich

Chair of Grassland Studies

Phone: 0049/8161/71-3965

Mail: karl.auerswald@mytum.de
CLEVELAND--A Case Western Reserve University researcher has turned the origami she enjoyed as a child into a patent-pending soft robot that may one day be used on an assembly line, in surgery or even outer space.
Kiju Lee, the Nord Distinguished Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, and her lab have moved from paper robots to 3-D-printed models that bend, contract, extend and twist.
This novel mechanism is called TWISTER (TWISted TowEr Robot).
TWISTER was inspired by an origami twisted tower originally designed by Japanese artist Mihoko Tachibana, which uses multiple origami segments to form a tower structure.
This origami design was then reinvented for various potential applications in robotics and manufacturing.
In her earlier work using paper-folded structures, Lee's team added three small versions of the towers to one end of the larger tower and manipulated them to grasp like three opposing fingers.
While picking up and moving eggs and ripe fruit, Lee's team found that when excessive force was applied, the fingers absorbed the extra force by distributing it and deforming.
That quality, the researchers say, demonstrates the design's potential for manipulating all kinds of fragile objects without requiring force-based sensing and interacting with humans, without safety concerns.
Recently, Lee successfully converted the TWISTER designs into 3-D printable models.
This work enabled fabrication of complex origami-inspired designs via 3-D printing.
"Among the possibilities for this robot are fragile-object manipulation and direct human-robot interaction, because these robots are soft and safe," said Lee, who will present her latest study at the IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems in Vancouver today (Sept. 27).
"TWISTER is very different from rigid body robots," she said.
TWISTER is made from multiple layers of regular polygons--triangles, hexagons or octagons, forming a tube-like shape of a tower.
Lee used cable-based actuation to control the robot, while different approaches, such as using Shape-Memory-Alloys, are also being explored.
The motions can make a tower lying on its side crawl.
For safety reasons, hard-bodied robots are typically separated from people in manufacturing processes, Lee said.
"Because this robot can be made with soft materials," she said, "it could be safe to use on an assembly line right next to people."
Lee and physicians have also been discussing ways to miniaturize the robot to insert in the body for minimally invasive surgeries.
"Laproscopic surgery often requires some rigid pieces, and movement to control them from the outside causes stress on the tissues," Lee said.
She's also been exploring space robotic applications, particularly for a space arm.
"To put anything into space, volume and weight are critical, because of the cost of rocket transport," Lee said.
"This robot is fully collapsible and, compared to a rigid arm, light and compact."
###

Current and former undergraduate researchers Yanzhou Wang and Evan Vander Hoff, and PhD students Donghwa Jeong and Tao Liu contributed to this project.
Putting a dollar value on the savings from traffic congestion, noise and air pollution as a result of toll roads and tunnels will make large infrastructure projects more cost effective, according to a new study by QUT.
Sae Chi, from QUT's Science and Engineering Faculty, has compared the financial and economic cost of public and privately operated toll roads and tunnels, and found the net impacts to the community should be taken into account in decision-making about transport infrastructure investment.
The research has been published in the Journal of Transportation Engineering titled Measuring impacts and risks to the public of a privately operated toll road project by considering perspectives in cost-benefit analysis.
Ms Chi said the financial bottomline should not be the only consideration when determining when whether or not to invest in toll roads and tunnels.
"If governments continue to rely on limited cost-benefit analysis or solely on financial analysis it will not encourage infrastructure development," she said.
Ms Chi said to share the costs and risks of building and operating toll road and tunnel projects, governments often partnered with the private sector.
She said while private operators were looking for a bottomline return on investment, governments needed to consider benefits in addition to toll charges and traffic flows that can result in profits.
"Even when partnering with the private sector, it is important that governments consider the public benefits and monetise savings such as travel time, reduced costs to drivers and the positive outcomes for the environment," she said.
"When governments put a dollar figure on these factors the cost-benefit analysis sways much more heavily in favour of supporting infrastructure investment."
Ms Chi said current cost-benefit analysis for road and tunnel projects was limited in Australia, and in most cases focused on the financials and not the public benefits.
"But governments are responsible for public decision making for the good of their constituents and this includes ensuring that public funds are invested wisely and that regulation of private sector activity ensures a net benefit to society," she said.
Ms Chi said this study findings would help support increased infrastructure investment across the nation, especially in high-growth population areas.
###

Media contacts:

Sandra Hutchinson, QUT media officer, 3138 9449 or media@qut.edu.au

Rose Trapnell, QUT media team leader, 0407 585 901
Dieting could be revolutionized, thanks to the groundbreaking discovery by the University of Warwick of the key brain cells which control our appetite

Key brain cells which control our appetite discovered by scientists at University of Warwick

Tanycytes found - for the first time - to detect amino acids from food and tell the brain directly that we feel full

Foods high in two key amino acids - such as pork shoulder, beef sirloin steak, chicken, mackerel, plums, apricots, avocadoes, lentils and almonds - activate tanycytes and make us feel fuller quicker

Discovery could help to curb obesity crisis - possibility of treatments to suppress appetite and control weight by activating tanycytes in brain

Dieting could be revolutionised, thanks to the ground-breaking discovery by the University of Warwick of the key brain cells which control our appetite.
Professor Nicholas Dale in the School of Life Sciences has identified for the first time that tanycytes - cells found in part of the brain that controls energy levels - detect nutrients in food and tell the brain directly about the food we have eaten.
According to the new research, tanycytes in the brain respond to amino acids found in foods, via the same receptors that sense the flavour of amino acids ("umami" taste), which are found in the taste buds of the tongue.
Two amino acids that react most with tanycytes - and therefore are likely to make you feel fuller - are arginine and lysine.
These amino acids are found in high concentration in foods such as pork shoulder, beef sirloin steak, chicken, mackerel, plums, apricots, avocadoes, lentils and almonds - so eating those foods will activate the tanycytes and make you feel less hungry quicker.
The researchers made their discovery by adding concentrated amounts of arginine and lysine into brain cells, which were made fluorescent so that any microscopic reactions would be visible.
They observed that within thirty seconds, the tanycytes detected and responded to the amino acids, releasing information to the part of the brain that controls appetite and body weight.
They found that signals from amino acids are directly detected by the umami taste receptors by removing or blocking these receptors and observing that the amino acids no longer reacted with tanycytes.
Nicholas Dale, who is Ted Pridgeon Professor of Neuroscience at the University of Warwick, commented:

"Amino acid levels in blood and brain following a meal are a very important signal that imparts the sensation of feeling full.
Finding that tanycytes, located at the centre of the brain region that controls body weight, directly sense amino acids has very significant implications for coming up with new ways to help people to control their body weight within healthy bounds."
This major discovery opens up new possibilities for creating more effective diets - and even future treatments to suppress one's appetite by directly activating the brain's tanycytes, bypassing food and the digestive system.
Nearly two thirds of the UK population is overweight or obese.
This excess weight elevates the risk of premature death and a range of illnesses, such as cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease and stroke, which greatly reduce quality of life.
A new understanding of how appetite functions could curb the growing obesity crisis.
The research, 'Amino Acid Sensing in Hypothalamic Tanycytes via Umami Taste Receptors', will be published in Molecular Metabolism.
It is funded by the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council.
A stroke is just one example of a condition when communication between nerve cells breaks down.
Micro-failures in brain functioning also occur in conditions such as depression and dementia.
In most cases, the lost capacity will return after a while.
However, consequential damage will often remain so that the functional capability can only be restored through lengthy treatment -- if at all.
For this reason, researchers at Friedrich-Alexander-Universitt Erlangen-Nrnberg (FAU) have been investigating what happens during such breakdown phases and looking at possible ways of preventing damage and speeding up the healing processes.
Their findings have been recently published in the eminent journal Scientific Reports (doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-11729-5).
The research team headed by Jana Wrosch of FAU's Chair of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy found that significant alterations occurred in neural cells while the communication pathways were blocked.
Neuron networks reconnect during such periods of inactivity and become hypersensitive.
If we imagine that normal communication pathways are motorways, when they are blocked a form of traffic chaos occurs in the brain whereby information is re-routed in disorganised form along what can be called side streets and minor routes.
Additional synapses are generated everywhere and begin operating.
When the signal is reinstated, the previously coordinated information routes no longer exist and, as in the case of a child, the appropriate functions need to be learned from scratch.
Since they are receiving no normal signals during the phase of brain malfunction, the nerve cells also become more sensitive in an attempt to find the missing input.
Once the signals return, this means they may overreact.
Nerve cells flicker when stained

Visualising the microscopically minute connections between the nerve cells is a major technical challenge.
The conventional microscopic techniques currently available, such as electron microscopy, always require preliminary treatment of the nerve cells that are to undergo examination.
However, this causes the nerve cells to die, so that the alterations that occur in the cells cannot be observed.
To get round this problem, Wrosch and her team have developed a high-speed microscopy process along with special statistical computer software that make it possible to visualise the communication networks of living neurons.
First, a video of the cells is made whereby an image is taken every 36 milliseconds.
A special dye is used to stain the cells to ensure that the individual cells flicker whenever they receive a signal.
Subsequently, the software recognises these cells on the video images and detects the information pathways by which the signals are transmitted from cell to cell.
The nerve cells are then exposed to the pufferfish poison tetrodotoxin to simulate the blocking of communication channels that occurs in disorders.
After inducing communication breakdown phases of varying lengths, the researchers remove the toxin from the cells and determine how the nerve cell networks have changed during exposure.
'Thanks to this concept, we have been finally able to discover what happens when communication is blocked,' explains Wrosch.
'Now we can try to develop medications that will help prevent these damaging changes.'
In future projects, the research team plans to examine the exact mode of action of anti-depressants on nerve cell networks and intends to find new approaches to creating more effective drugs.
While lavender has long been known for its strong scent and soothing oils, a UBC researcher is exploring the plant's ability to create natural pesticides.
Soheil Mahmoud, an associate professor of biology at UBC's Okanagan campus, conducts research on organic compounds found in plants--specifically lavender.
While lavender is known for its strong scent, and the plant's oils are said to have a healing, or soothing benefit, Mahmoud says lavender has much more to offer.
"Lavender has proven to be very good at protecting itself through production of antimicrobial and anti-fungal biochemical compounds," says Mahmoud.
"One of our goals is to identify molecules that are involved in this natural self-defence."
Using a research field at UBC's Okanagan campus, Mahmoud and his team of students are attempting to identify, characterized and clone the specific genes that control the defensive properties of lavender.
If this is indeed possible, Mahmoud suggests this may have significant environmental implications.
Lavenders produce essential oils, he explains, and these consist mainly of organic compounds, including an antimicrobial and insecticidal monoterpene named 3-carene.
In the latest research, students Ayelign Adal, Lukman Sarker and Ashley Lemke isolated and examined the gene and corresponding enzyme that catalyzes the formation of 3-carene in lavenders.
Traditionally, chemical herbicides or pesticides have been used to control fungal growth or pests like insects.
But Mahmoud says this method is becoming less and less desirable as many of the pests and fungi have become resilient to the chemicals used, and as consumers prefer food that is untreated or treated with "natural" pesticides.
"We've become much more health conscious," he says.
"There are healthier options instead of spraying chemicals on plants; we just need to explore these.
Aromatic plants like lavenders could provide suitable alternatives to chemical-based insecticides"

###

Mahmoud's research was recently published in the Plant Molecular Biology journal and was supported through grants and/or in-kind contributions by Genome British Columbia, Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada, Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada and the BC Ministry of Agriculture.
The plant Ambrosia arborescens grows at a high elevation in large parts of South America, and is traditionally used as a medicinal plant.
The researchers have isolated the sesquiterpene lactone damsin from the plant and studied its effect on cancer stem cells in three different breast cancer cell lines.
They have also performed similar studies using what is known as an analogue called ambrosin - a substance similar to damsin, but produced synthetically.
The results show that they both have an effect on cancer stem cells.
"Both the natural and the synthetic substances inhibit the growth and spread of cancer stem cells in breast cancer cell lines.
This is the first time that it has been successfully proven by research", says Stina Oredsson, professor at Lund University.
Already at low concentrations, the two substances inhibit the division and mobility of the cancer cells.
This means that the tumour becomes smaller as cell proliferation decreases.
In the present study, the researchers show that the actual number of cancer stem cells decreases.
Stina Oredsson emphasises that this is basic research and that the results are based on lab experiments involving cell cultures.
However, she argues that the results are a breakthrough in cancer research as it may be the first step towards effective treatment of cancer stem cells, i.e.
the cells believed to cause metastases.
"Different cancer cells have different abilities to survive chemotherapy.
Cancer stem cells can be considered the most dangerous type of cancer cells, as they appear to have an inherent resistance to the chemotherapeutic drugs used today.
Our results can contribute to the development of new drugs against cancer stem cells but, unfortunately, it takes a long time to get from basic research to usable drugs", says Stina Oredsson.
She and her colleagues continue to study damsin and ambrosin.
They have also developed other analogues that show very good inhibitory effects on cancer stem cells.
These results have not yet been published.
###

The collaboration project between Lund University and the University Major of San Andrs in La Paz, Bolivia, is funded by the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA).
Researchers have developed a solution to a longstanding problem in the field of end-to-end encryption, a technique that ensures that only sender and recipient can read a message.
With current end-to-end encryption, if an attacker compromises a recipient's device, they can then put themselves in a position to intercept, read and alter all future communications without sender or recipient ever knowing.
The new protocol, published in IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, forces attackers to leave evidence of any such activity and alerts users to take action.
Dr. Jiangshan Yu at the University of Luxembourg, Professor Mark Ryan at the University of Birmingham and Professor Cas Cremers at the University of Oxford, were motivated by the discovery of mass software vulnerabilities, such as the Heartbleed bug, that make the majority of devices vulnerable to compromise.
Dr Yu explained, "There are excellent end-to-end encryption services out there, but by definition they rely on your device itself remaining secure; once a device has been compromised there's little we can do.
That's the problem we wanted to solve."
Following Edward Snowden's revelations about government mass surveillance, end-to-end encryption is now widely available through services such as Facebook's WhatsApp.
The approach uses pairs of cryptographic 'keys' for the sender to encrypt and the recipient to decrypt messages; anyone wanting to read your messages has to first hack into your phone to steal your latest keys.
The attacker then performs a 'Man-in-the-middle' (MITM) attack, for example by taking control of your WIFI router to intercept your messages, and uses the stolen keys to impersonate you.
Current encryption protocols such as Signal used by WhatsApp make the most of the fact that a MITM attacker can only intercept messages sent via the compromised network.
For example, as soon as you send a message via 3G rather than the compromised WiFi the attacker will no longer be able to act as an intermediary.
They will lose track of the keys and be locked out of the conversation.
The solution, called DECIM (Detecting Endpoint Compromise in Messaging), addresses the question of what to do when the attacker is in a position to intercept all of your messages on a long-term basis.
Both your Internet Service Provider and messaging service operator are in such positions - all your messages pass through their servers - so that if they obtained your keys, they would never be locked out of a conversation, and you would never know.
With DECIM, the recipient's device automatically certifies new key pairs, storing the certificates in a tamper-resistant public ledger.
The team undertook a formal security analysis using a symbolic protocol verification tool, the 'Tamarin prover', which runs millions of possible attack situations, verifying DECIM's capabilities.
This is a rare step for a messaging protocol, and the same analysis for other protocols revealed several security flaws.
"There's no silver bullet in the field of end-to-end encryption", said Dr. Yu, "but we hope that our contribution can add an extra layer of security and help to level the playing field between users and attackers."
Professor Mark Ryan, from the School of Computer Science at the University of Birmingham, said, "Our Security and Privacy group tries to solve problems that are important to society.
Given the prevalence of cyber-attacks on phones and laptops, we are proud of this work on detecting when encryption keys have become compromised.
Next, we intend to apply for this work on detecting encryption key compromise to applications, for example in blockchain or in Internet-based voting."
For agricultural nitrogen, slow it down, buff it out

Nitrogen can present a dilemma for farmers and land managers.
On one hand, it is an essential nutrient for crops.
However, excess nitrogen in fertilizers can enter groundwater and pollute aquatic systems.
This nitrogen, usually in the form of nitrate, can cause algal blooms.
Microbes that decompose these algae can ultimately remove oxygen from water bodies, causing dead zones and fish kills.
In a new study, researchers have identified nitrate removal hotspots in landscapes around agricultural streams.
"Understanding where nitrate removal is highest can inform management of agricultural streams," says Molly Welsh, lead author of the study.
"This information can help us improve water quality more effectively."
Welsh is a graduate student at the State University of New York College of Environmental Science and Forestry.
She studied four streams in northwestern North Carolina.
The streams showed a range of degradation and restoration activity.
One of the streams had been restored.
Two others were next to agricultural lands.
The fourth site had agricultural activity in an upstream area.
The researchers analyzed water and sediment samples from the streams.
They also analyzed soil samples from buffer zones next to the streams.
Buffer zones are strips of land between an agricultural field and the stream.
They often include native plants.
Previous research showed they are particularly effective at absorbing and removing nitrate.
Welsh's research confirmed previous findings: Nitrate removal in buffer zones was significantly higher than in stream sediments.
"If nitrate removal is the goal of stream restoration, it is vital that we conserve existing buffer zones and reconnect streams to buffer zones," says Welsh.
Within these buffer zones, nitrate removal hotspots occurred in low-lying areas.
These hotspots had fine-textured soils, abundant soil organic matter, and lots of moisture.
The same was true in streams.
Nitrate removal was highest in pools where water collected for long times.
These pools tended to have fine sediments and high levels of organic matter.
However, pools created during stream restoration by installing channel-spanning rocks did not show high levels of nitrate removal.
Creating pools using woody debris from trees may be more effective than rock structures for in-stream nitrogen removal.
The researchers also tested simple statistical models to understand which factors promote nitrate removal.
Bank slope and height, vegetation and soil type, and time of year explained 40% of the buffer zone's nitrate removal.
Similar to the hotspots identified in the field experiment, fine sediment textures, organic matter, and dissolved carbon content were key to removing nitrates in streams.
"Our results show that it may be possible to develop simple models to guide nitrogen management," says Welsh.
"However, more work is needed in terms of gathering and evaluating data.
Then we can find the best parameters to include in these models."
Welsh continues to study how stream restoration influences the movement of water and nitrate removal.
She is also examining how steps to increase nitrate removal influence other aspects of landscape management.
###

Read more about Welsh's work in Journal of Environmental Quality.
Funding was provided by the United States Department of Agriculture - National Institute of Food and Agriculture's Agriculture and Food Research Initiative and the National Science Foundation's Graduate Research Fellowship.
Key takeaways:

Extracellular vesicle ARMMs carry receptors that allow signaling without direct contact between cells.
Researchers hope to engineer ARMMs to send therapeutics directly to tissues and inside cells.
Boston, MA - A newly discovered cellular messaging mechanism could lead to a new way to deliver therapeutics to tissues affected by disease, according to a new study from Harvard T.H.
Chan School of Public Health.
Researchers found that a type of extracellular vesicle (EV) -- a sac secreted by cells that contains proteins and RNA molecules -- known as ARMMs also carries receptors that allow signaling without direct contact between cells.
This capability may make ARMMs uniquely suited to be engineered to send therapeutics directly to affected areas of the body.
"EVs are like messages in a bottle between cells," said senior author Quan Lu, associate professor of environmental genetics and pathophysiology.
"We think that within the next few years, we may be able to swap the endogenous molecules in ARMMs for therapeutic cargos -- such as antibodies -- and to engineer ARMMs to home in on a particular tissue."
The study will be published online September 27, 2017 in Nature Communications.
There are an estimated 37 trillion cells in the human body -- and 100 times that many EVs.
They circulate in the blood and other bodily fluids and are involved in processes such as coagulation and the immune response.
They can also be hijacked to spread cancer or viruses like HIV and Ebola.
EVs are generating a great deal of interest in the biotechnology field.
Researchers believe that the molecules they carry include the fingerprints of disease and harmful environmental exposures.
Work is already underway on developing a "liquid biopsy" to test EVs in a drop of blood.
Previous work by Lu's lab described the body's mechanism for producing ARMMs.
Unlike other EVs, which are generated within cells, ARMMs are secreted directly from the plasma membrane at the cell's surface.
Although the physiological function of ARMMs remains unknown, the way that they are made may make them uniquely suited to carry certain molecules.
In the current study, the researchers found that ARMMs contain molecules used for NOTCH signaling, a type of intercellular communication that normally requires cell-to-cell contact.
NOTCH receptors are plasma membrane proteins involved in critical physiological roles such as embryonic development, tissue homeostasis, and stem cell function.
According to the new findings, ARMMs are able to facilitate NOTCH receptor signaling at a distance.
"Our research on ARMMs has tremendous potential for therapeutics and public health," Lu said.
While other researchers have explored using EVs to deliver therapeutics, directing them within the body has been an obstacle.
Lu believes that ARMMs provide a way past that barrier, and he was recently awarded a patent for generating, isolating, and engineering ARMMs.
"It will likely be at least 10 years before we see these methods used in a clinical setting," Lu said.
"But the path forward is clear."
The study's first author was Qiyu Wang, a research associate at Harvard Chan School.
This study was supported in part by a National Institutes of Health R01grant (R01 HL114769) and by funding from the Blavatnik Biomedical Accelerator Fund.
###

"Plasma membrane-derived extracellular microvesicles mediate non-canonical intercellular NOTCH signaling," Qiyu Wang and Quan Lu, Nature Communications, September 27, 2017, DOI: 10.1038/s41467-017-00767-2

Visit the Harvard Chan School website for the latest news, press releases, and multimedia offerings.
Harvard T.H.
Chan School of Public Health brings together dedicated experts from many disciplines to educate new generations of global health leaders and produce powerful ideas that improve the lives and health of people everywhere.
As a community of leading scientists, educators, and students, we work together to take innovative ideas from the laboratory to people's lives -- not only making scientific breakthroughs, but also working to change individual behaviors, public policies, and health care practices.
Each year, more than 400 faculty members at Harvard Chan School teach 1,000-plus full-time students from around the world and train thousands more through online and executive education courses.
Founded in 1913 as the Harvard-MIT School of Health Officers, the School is recognized as America's oldest professional training program in public health.
In the first year of availability of the cholesterol lowering medications PCSK9 inhibitors, fewer than 1 in 3 adults initially prescribed one of these inhibitors actually received it, owing to a combination of out-of-pocket costs and lack of insurance approval, according to a study published by JAMA Cardiology.
Since 2015, PCSK9 inhibitors (PCSK9i), alirocumab and evolocumab, have been approved for adults with persistently elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels despite maximally tolerated statin therapy and those with familial high cholesterol.
The retail cost for these PCSK9i can be as much as $14,000 per year, leading health insurers and pharmacy benefit managers to implement utilization management processes including prior authorization and patient therapy copays.
To date, limited information is available on how these preauthorization processes and copays jointly are associated with access to PCSK9i in community practice.
Using pharmacy transaction data, Ann Marie Navar, M.D., Ph.D., of the Duke Clinical Research Institute, Durham, N.C., and colleagues evaluated 45,029 patients who were newly prescribed PCSK9i in the United States between August 2015 and July 2016.
Of patients given a new PCSK9i prescription, 51 percent were women, 57 percent were 65 years or older, and 53 percent had governmental insurance.
Of the patients given a prescription, 20.8 percent received approval on the first day, and 47.2 percent ever received approval.
Of those approved, 65.3 percent filled the prescription, resulting in 30.9 percent of those prescribed PCSK9i ever receiving therapy.
Patients who were older, male, and had atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease were more likely to be approved, but approval rates did not vary by patient LDL-C level nor statin use.
Other factors associated with drug approval included having government vs commercial insurance, and those filled at a specialty vs retail pharmacy.
Approval rates varied nearly 3-fold among the top 10 largest pharmacy benefit managers.
Not having a prescription filled by patients was most associated with copay costs, with prescription abandonment rates ranging from 7.5 percent for those with $0 copay to more than 75 percent for copays greater than $350.
Several limitations of the study are noted in the article.
###

For more details and to read the full study, please visit the For The Media website.
(doi:10.1001/jamacardio.2017.3451)

Editor's Note: Please see the article for additional information, including other authors, author contributions and affiliations, financial disclosures, funding and support, etc.
Findings from an analysis that included more than 200,000 patients who underwent common surgical procedures suggests that the optimal length of opioid pain prescriptions is four to nine days for general surgery procedures, four to 13 days for women's health procedures, and six to15 days for musculoskeletal procedures, according to a study published by JAMA Surgery.
As rates of opioid prescribing have increased dramatically in recent years, the overprescription of pain medications has been implicated as a driver of the burgeoning opioid epidemic and the associated increases in overdose deaths in the United States.
It is estimated that as many as 259 million opioid prescriptions were issued in 2012, four times the number prescribed in 1999.
There is uncertainty regarding optimal prescribing practices for opioid pain medications, particularly in the setting of postoperative, outpatient pain management, where few guidelines exist.
Louis L. Nguyen, M.D., M.B.A., M.P.H., of Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, and colleagues used the Department of Defense Military Health System Data Repository to identify individuals who had undergone 1 of 8 common surgical procedures between January 2005 and September 2014 and had not previously used opioids.
Of the 215,140 individuals who underwent a procedure within the study time frame and received and filled at least one prescription for opioid pain medication within 14 days of their procedure, 19 percent received at least one refill prescription.
The median prescription lengths were 4 days for appendectomy and gallbladder removal, 5 days for inguinal hernia repair, 4 days for hysterectomy, 5 days for mastectomy, 5 days for anterior cruciate ligament repair and rotator cuff repair, and 7 days for discectomy.
The early nadir (the initial prescription duration associated with the lowest modeled risk of refill) in the probability of refill was at an initial prescription of nine days for general surgery procedures (probability of refill, 10.7 percent), 13 days for women's health procedures (probability of refill, 16.8 percent), and 15 days for musculoskeletal procedures (probability of refill, 32.5 percent).
The study notes some limitations, including that it addresses only prescription opioid use within this population and cannot address opioid medications obtained through other means.
"An opioid prescription after surgery should balance adequate pain treatment with minimizing the duration of treatment and potential for medication complications including issues with dependence.
Although 7-day limits on initial opioid pain medication prescriptions are likely adequate in many settings, and indeed also sufficient for many common general surgery and gynecologic procedures, in the postoperative setting, particularly after many orthopedic and neurosurgical procedures, a 7-day limit may be inappropriately restrictive," the authors write.
###

For more details and to read the full study, please visit the For The Media website.
(doi:10.1001/jamasurg.2017.3132)

Editor's Note: Please see the article for additional information, including other authors, author contributions and affiliations, financial disclosures, funding and support, etc.
DURHAM, N.C. - A minimally invasive procedure used to replace heart valves without open heart surgery appears to provide a durable remedy for people with a life-threatening form of heart disease in which the aortic valve opening narrows, diminishing blood flow.
The procedure, called trans-catheter aortic valve replacement, or TAVR, has been safely used in older patients who are not good candidates for open heart surgery.
But strong research establishing its durability over five to 10 years has been lacking.
This has created questions about whether it should be used in younger and healthier people.
Now a study, published in JAMA Cardiology and led by a member of the Duke Clinical Research Institute, provides some answers.
Using data and follow-up from the first and largest studies of TAVR safety, the research team found that the biologic valves used in a TAVR procedure, as well as those used in open heart surgery, continue to perform well up to five years after implantation.
"I think these findings are incredibly reassuring at least out to five years," said lead author Pamela Douglas, M.D., the Ursula Geller Professor for Research in Cardiovascular Diseases at Duke University School of medicine and director of the DCRI imaging program11 a.m.. "The valve is quite durable and safe."
Douglas and colleagues analyzed data from more than 2,700 patients who had been part of a large trial called PARTNER, which established the safety of TAVR.
The study patients received either a minimally invasive TAVR procedure - which uses a catheter that is routed through a blood vessel in the leg or chest to access the heart -- or an open-heart surgery to replace the valve.
All of the study patients received biological valves, developed from animal or donated human tissue.
Biological valves are increasingly favored over mechanical valves, which must be surgically implanted and require long-term use of anti-coagulation drugs to protect against blood clots.
In their analysis, the study authors also included echocardiograms of about 475 patients five years after either their minimally invasive or surgical valve replacement.
The average age of patients in the study group was 84.5 years, and many had additional serious health risks.
Among the 2,404 TAVR patients in the study, 34 percent survived five years.
Similarly, 37 percent of the 313 patients whose valves were replaced in an open surgery also survived to five years.
Twenty TAVR patients (0.8 percent) required a second valve procedure, and only five of the revisions arose from structural deteriorations of the valve.
The researchers found evidence that 3.7 percent of the TAVR patients developed a condition in which the valve allowed blood to flow back into the heart, and this problem increased over time.
"This was seen in only a handful of patients, but it's certainly something of concern and warrants further study," Douglas said.
"Overall, however, the findings from this carefully designed study demonstrate that there is little evidence of valve failure or deterioration for either TAVR or surgery using biological valves."
She said the study provides a first step in understanding the long-term benefits of minimally invasive valve replacement, and suggests additional studies could be safely undertaken.
###

In addition to Douglas, study authors include Martin B. Leon, Michael J. Mack, Lars G. Svensson, John G. Webb, Rebecca T. Hahn, Pillippe Pibarot, Neil J. Weissman, D. Craig Miller, Samir Kapadia, Howard C. Hermann, Susheel K. Kodell, Raj R. Makkar, Vinod H. Thourani, Stamatios Lerakis, Ashley M. Lowry, Jeevanantham Rajeswaran, Matthew T. Finn, Maria C. Alu, Craig R. Smith and Eugene H. Blackstone for the PARTNER Trial investigators.
The study was funded by Edwards Lifesciences, which markets TAVR products.
Author conflicts of interest are listed in the manuscript.
Boston, MA--A new study led by researchers at the Center for Surgery and Public Health at Brigham and Women's Hospital analyzed opioid prescription data from the Department of Defense Military Health System Data Repository, identifying more than 200,000 opioid-nave individuals who had undergone one of eight common surgical procedures between 2006 and 2014 and were subsequently prescribed opioid pain medication.
Their findings appear in JAMA Surgery as a featured article for the week of Sept. 27.
Every day, more than 90 Americans die after overdosing on opioids, according to the National Institute on Drug Abuse.
Misuse of and addiction to opioids has become a public health crisis with more than 2 million Americans suffering from substance abuse issues related to prescription opioid pain medication.
While over-prescription of pain medications has been implicated as a driver of this growing opioid epidemic, few guidelines exist on how to appropriately prescribe opioid pain medication following surgery with the goal of balancing pain with risk of addiction.
There have been several recent governmental efforts to address the rise in opioid pain medication prescriptions, which quadrupled between 1999 and 2012.
In Mass.
and New York, legislation has limited initial prescription lengths to less than seven days and driven the development of drug monitoring programs.
To determine optimal opioid pain medical prescribing practices, particularly in the setting of postoperative, outpatient pain management, researchers from the CSPH at BWH investigated opioid pain medical prescription patterns following common surgical procedures.
The team sought to identify the appropriateness of the prescription as indicated by the rate of prescription refills and to develop recommendations.
Using a nationally representative sample of people who were opiate nave undergoing common procedures, researchers found that median prescription length for the first-time prescriptions was four to seven days, and that the number of people who required a refill of their opiate prescription varied from 11.3 percent to 39.3 percent depending on the type of procedure performed.
The duration of the prescription also varied depending on the category of procedure, from nine days for general surgery procedures to 15 days for musculoskeletal procedures.
"While seven days may be more than adequate for many patients undergoing common general surgery and gynecological procedures, prescription length limits may need to be extended to 10 days, recognizing that as many as 40 percent of patients may still require a refill at a seven-day limit for pain management, particularly following many orthopedic and neurosurgical procedures," said first author Rebecca Scully, MD, MPH, a resident in the Department of Surgery at BWH who works in the CSPH.
Researchers used data from the Military Health System Data Repository, which tracks care delivered to active, disabled and retired members of the U.S armed forces and their dependents.
Researchers identified 215,140 individuals aged 18-64 who had undergone one of eight common surgical procedures (cholecystectomy, appendectomy, inguinal hernia repair, ACL reconstruction, rotator cuff tear repair, discectomy, mastectomy and hysterectomy) between 2006 and 2014 and had filled at least one opioid pain medication prescription in the 14 days following the procedure.
The study excluded individuals with a prior diagnosis of chronic pain, substance dependence or an opioid prescription within six months preceding the index procedure.
General surgery procedures were performed on 122,435 individuals, while 47,998 underwent musculoskeletal procedures, and 44,707 received a mastectomy or hysterectomy.
Using a mathematical model, researchers determined that the optimal length of opiate prescription was four to nine days for general surgery procedures, four to 13 days for women's health procedures, and six to 15 days for musculoskeletal procedures.
"We recognize that the opiate crisis is being addressed on many social, legislative, and policy levels," said senior author Louis Nguyen, MD, MBA, MPH.
"We hope our paper provides a quantitative analysis of current prescribing patterns and sheds light on the optimal prescription in patients undergoing surgical procedures."
###

This work was funded by a grant from the Department of Defense / Henry M. Jackson Foundation HU0001-11-1-0023: The Comparative Effectiveness and Provider Induced Demand Collaboration (EPIC): A Clinical and Economic Analysis of Variation in Healthcare.
The Center for Surgery and Public Health (CSPH) at Brigham and Women's Hospital was established in 2005 as a joint program of Harvard Medical School and the Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health.
Its mission is to advance the science of surgical care delivery by studying effectiveness, quality, equity, and value at the population level, and developing surgeon-scientists committed to excellence in these areas.
CSPH works with a diverse set of collaborators, including academic institutions, non-profit and for-profit organizations nationally and internationally, in order to eliminate disparities and foster patient-centered care through policy and practice.
Brigham and Women's Hospital (BWH) is a 793-bed nonprofit teaching affiliate of Harvard Medical School and a founding member of Partners HealthCare.
BWH has more than 4.2 million annual patient visits and nearly 46,000 inpatient stays, is the largest birthing center in Massachusetts and employs nearly 16,000 people.
The Brigham's medical preeminence dates back to 1832, and today that rich history in clinical care is coupled with its national leadership in patient care, quality improvement and patient safety initiatives, and its dedication to research, innovation, community engagement and educating and training the next generation of health care professionals.
Through investigation and discovery conducted at its Brigham Research Institute (BRI), BWH is an international leader in basic, clinical and translational research on human diseases, more than 1,000 physician-investigators and renowned biomedical scientists and faculty supported by nearly $600 million in funding.
For the last 25 years, BWH ranked second in research funding from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) among independent hospitals.
BWH continually pushes the boundaries of medicine, including building on its legacy in transplantation by performing a partial face transplant in 2009 and the nation's first full face transplant in 2011.
BWH is also home to major landmark epidemiologic population studies, including the Nurses' and Physicians' Health Studies and the Women's Health Initiative as well as the TIMI Study Group, one of the premier cardiovascular clinical trials groups.
For more information, resources and to follow us on social media, please visit BWH's online newsroom.
The Saturn Nebula is located approximately 5000 light years away in the constellation of Aquarius (The Water Bearer).
Its name derives from its odd shape, which resembles everyone's favourite ringed planet seen edge-on.
But in fact, planetary nebulae have nothing to do with planets.
The Saturn Nebula was originally a low-mass star, which expanded into a red giant at the end of its life and began to shed its outer layers.
This material was blown out by strong stellar winds and energised by ultraviolet radiation from the hot stellar core left behind, creating a circumstellar nebula of dust and brightly-coloured hot gas.
At the heart of the Saturn Nebula lies the doomed star, visible in this image, which is in the process of becoming a white dwarf [1].
In order to better understand how planetary nebulae are moulded into such odd shapes, an international team of astronomers led by Jeremy Walsh from ESO used the Multi Unit Spectroscopic Explorer (MUSE - http://www.
org/ public/ teles-instr/ paranal-observatory/ vlt/ vlt-instr/ muse/ ) to peer inside the dusty veils of the Saturn Nebula.
MUSE is an instrument installed on one of the four Unit Telescopes of the Very Large Telescope at ESO's Paranal Observatory in Chile.
It is so powerful because it doesn't just create an image, but also gathers information about the spectrum -- or range of colours -- of the light from the object at each point in the image.
The team used MUSE to produce the first detailed optical maps of the gas and dust distributed throughout a planetary nebula [2].
The resulting image of the Saturn Nebula reveals many intricate structures, including an elliptical inner shell, an outer shell, and a halo.
It also shows two previously imaged streams extending from either end of the nebula's long axis, ending in bright ansae (Latin for "handles").
Intriguingly, the team also found a wave-like feature in the dust, which is not yet fully understood.
Dust is distributed throughout the nebula, but there is a significant drop in the amount of dust at the rim of the inner shell, where it seems that it is being destroyed.
There are several potential mechanisms for this destruction.
The inner shell is essentially an expanding shock wave, so it may be smashing into the dust grains and obliterating them, or producing an extra heating effect that evaporates the dust.
Mapping the gas and dust structures within planetary nebulae will aid in understanding their role in the lives and deaths of low mass stars, and it will also help astronomers understand how planetary nebulae acquire their strange and complex shapes.
But MUSE's capabilities extend far beyond planetary nebulae.
This sensitive instrument can also study the formation of stars and galaxies in the early Universe, as well as map the dark matter distribution in galaxy clusters in the nearby Universe.
MUSE has also created the first 3D map of the Pillars of Creation in the Eagle Nebula (eso1518 - http://www.
org/ public/ news/ eso1518/ ) and imaged a spectacular cosmic crash in a nearby galaxy (eso1437 - http://www.
org/ public/ news/ eso1437/ ).
###

Notes

[1] Planetary nebulae are generally short-lived; the Saturn Nebula will last only a few tens of thousands of years before expanding and cooling to such an extent that it becomes invisible to us.
The central star will then fade as it becomes a hot white dwarf.
[2] The NASA/ESA Hubble Space Telescope has previously provided a spectacular image (https:/ / www.
spacetelescope.
org/ images/ opo9738g/ ) of the Saturn Nebula -- but, unlike MUSE, it cannot reveal the spectrum at each point over the whole nebula.
More information

ESO is the foremost intergovernmental astronomy organisation in Europe and the world's most productive ground-based astronomical observatory by far.
It is supported by 16 countries: Austria, Belgium, Brazil, the Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Finland, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom, along with the host state of Chile.
ESO carries out an ambitious programme focused on the design, construction and operation of powerful ground-based observing facilities enabling astronomers to make important scientific discoveries.
ESO also plays a leading role in promoting and organising cooperation in astronomical research.
ESO operates three unique world-class observing sites in Chile: La Silla, Paranal and Chajnantor.
At Paranal, ESO operates the Very Large Telescope and its world-leading Very Large Telescope Interferometer as well as two survey telescopes, VISTA working in the infrared and the visible-light VLT Survey Telescope.
ESO is also a major partner in two facilities on Chajnantor, APEX and ALMA, the largest astronomical project in existence.
And on Cerro Armazones, close to Paranal, ESO is building the 39-metre Extremely Large Telescope, the ELT, which will become "the world's biggest eye on the sky".
Links

* Photos of the VLT - http://www.
org/ public/ images/ archive/ category/ paranal/

* Photos of MUSE - http://www.
org/ public/ images/ archive/ search/ ?adv= &subject_name= MUSE

* Press release on first light of MUSE - http://www.
org/ public/ news/ eso1407/

Contacts

Jeremy Walsh

ESO

Garching bei Mnchen, Germany

Email: jwalsh@eso.org

Richard Hook

ESO Public Information Officer

Garching bei Mnchen, Germany

Tel: +49 89 3200 6655

Cell: +49 151 1537 3591

Email: rhook@eso.org
ANN ARBOR, MI - Sleep doesn't come easily for nearly half of older Americans, and more than a third have resorted to some sort of medication to help them doze off at night, according to new results from the National Poll on Healthy Aging.
But most poll respondents said they hadn't talked to their doctor about their sleep, even though more than a third said their sleep posed a problem.
Half believe -- incorrectly -- that sleep problems just come naturally with age.
The poll was conducted by the University of Michigan Institute for Healthcare Policy and Innovation, and is sponsored by AARP and Michigan Medicine, U-M's academic medical center.
Those who turn to medications may not realize that prescription, over-the-counter and even "natural" sleep aids carry health risks, especially for older adults, either alone or in combination with other substances.
In fact, national guidelines strongly warn against prescription sleep medicine use by people over age 65.
Despite this, the nationally representative poll of people ages 65 to 80 finds that 8 percent of older people take prescription sleep medicine regularly or occasionally.
Among those who report sleep troubles three or more nights a week, 23 percent use a prescription sleep aid.
Most who use such drugs to help them sleep had been taking them for years.
Manufacturers and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration say such drugs are only for short-term use.
Medication: not the only option

"Although sleep problems can happen at any age and for many reasons, they can't be cured by taking a pill, either prescription, over-the-counter or herbal, no matter what the ads on TV say," says poll director Preeti Malani, M.D., a U-M physician trained in geriatric medicine.
"Some of these medications can create big concerns for older adults, from falls and memory issues to confusion and constipation," even if they're sold without a prescription.
"The first step for anyone having trouble sleeping on a regular basis should be to talk to a doctor about it," she continues.
"Our poll shows that nearly two-thirds of those who did so got helpful advice - but a large percentage of those with sleep problems simply weren't talking about it."
She notes that non-medication-based sleep habits are the first choice for improving sleep in older people.
Sleep and health

In all, 46 percent of those polled had trouble falling asleep one or more nights a week.
Fifteen percent of the poll respondents said they had trouble falling asleep three or more nights a week.
Other health conditions can contribute to sleep difficulties.
Twenty-three percent of poll respondents who had trouble sleeping said it was because of pain.
And 40 percent of those with frequent sleep problems said their overall health was fair or poor.
Other reasons for sleep troubles included having to get up to use the bathroom at night, and worry or stress.
Insomnia and other irregular sleep patterns can interfere with daytime functioning, and are associated with memory issues, depression and an increased risk of falls and accidents.
Even so, many said they didn't see sleep issues as a health problem - in fact, this belief was the most common reason that poll respondents said they didn't talk to their doctor about sleep.
This also highlights the need for doctors to ask their older patients about their sleep habits and what they're doing to address any issues they may be having

"We know that sleep is a critical factor for overall health as we age, and this new research highlights sleep problems as both a significant health issue for older adults and an underacknowledged one both by patients and their providers," says Alison Bryant, Ph.D., senior vice president of research for AARP.
"We need to help people understand that lack of sleep is not just a natural part of aging."
More about medication use

In all, 14 percent of the poll respondents said they regularly took a prescription sleep medication, prescription pain medication, OTC sleep aid or herbal supplement to help them sleep.
Another 23 percent took one of these options occasionally; most of the occasional users said they chose OTC sleep aids.
The most recent Beers Criteria established by the American Geriatrics Society, which guides the use of medications among older people, gives a strong warning against use of prescription sleep drugs, which are sold under such names as Ambien, Lunesta and Sonata.
Meanwhile, even though OTC sleep aids can be purchased without a doctor's guidance or prescription, they still carry health risks for older people, Malani notes.
Most of them contain diphenhydramine, an antihistamine that can cause side effects such as confusion, urinary retention and constipation.
Among poll respondents with frequent sleep problems who took something occasionally to help them sleep, OTC sleep remedies were the most common choice.
But among those with frequent sleep issues who took something on a regular basis to try to sleep, prescription sleep medications were the most common option, with 17 percent reporting use.
Use of melatonin and other herbal remedies may be perceived as safer, but less is known about their potential side effects and they are not subject to the FDA's approval process for medications, says Malani.
But any issue that prompts someone to buy an OTC or herbal remedy on a regular basis is something they should discuss with their doctor, she adds.
The poll results are based on answers from a nationally representative sample of 1,065 people ages 65 to 80, who answered a wide range of questions online.
Questions were written, and data interpreted and compiled, by the IHPI team.
Laptops and Internet access were provided to poll respondents who did not already have it.
###

A full report of the findings and methodology is available at http://www.
healthyagingpoll.
The poll will issue its next findings in late October; sign up for email notifications on the website.
A landmark Australian research trial has found the transfusion of older stored red blood cells is safe and surprisingly, associated with fewer side effects.
In the TRANSFUSE trial, researchers from the Australian and New Zealand Intensive Care Research Centre at Monash University in Melbourne led teams in 5 countries to investigate the effect of the age of transfused red blood cells on critically ill patient's outcomes.
In a study published in the New England Journal of Medicine on September 27th, the team demonstrated that fresher blood was no better than older blood.
Unexpectedly they also found fewer transfusion reactions, including fever, with the older blood; and in the most severely ill patients, the transfusion of older blood was associated with fewer deaths.
Lead researcher Professor Jamie Cooper said "older blood appears to be like a good red wine- better with some age.
The findings of our trial confirm that the current duration of storage of red blood cells for transfusion is both safe and optimal".
In Australia, red blood cells are stored for up to 42 days before transfusion.
Routine practice in most hospitals is to allocate the oldest available compatible blood.
Concerns regarding changes in the red blood cells for transfusion during storage, have led some countries to reduce this to 35 days, and some doctors to request fresher blood for specific patients under the belief the "fresh must be best".
"Such practices can significantly reduce the availability of blood for transfusion" said Professor Cooper.
"Our study shows these practices are not required and are potentially counterproductive".
###

The TRANSFUSE trial was of 5000 Intensive Care patients in Australia, New Zealand, Finland, Ireland and Saudi Arabia.
This ground-breaking research was performed in collaboration with the Australian and New Zealand Intensive Care Society Clinical Trials Group, and the Irish Critical Care-Clinical Trials Group.
It was made possible by grants from the National Health and Medical Research Council, the Health Research Council of NZ, and the Health Research Board of Ireland.
TRANSFUSE was supported by the Australian Red Cross Blood Service, the Australian National Blood Authority and the national blood transfusion services of New Zealand, Ireland, and Finland.
Remember the movie The Princess Bride, when the characters debate the existence of R.O.U.S.es (Rodents of Unusual Size), only to be beset by enormous rats?
That's kind of what happened here.
Mammalogist Tyrone Lavery heard rumors of a giant, possum-like rat that lived in trees and cracked open coconuts with its teeth on his first trip to the Solomon Islands in 2010.
After years of searching and a race against deforestation destroying the rat's would-be home, Lavery, along with John Vendi and Hikuna Judge, finally found it.
"The new species, Uromys vika, is pretty spectacular -- it's a big, giant rat," said Lavery, a post-doctoral researcher at The Field Museum in Chicago and the lead author of the Journal of Mammalogy paper announcing the rat's discovery.
"It's the first rat discovered in 80 years from Solomons, and it's not like people haven't been trying -- it was just so hard to find."
The Solomon Islands, a country made up of a series of islands a thousand miles northwest of Australia, are biologically isolated.
Over half of the mammals on the Solomon Islands are found nowhere else on Earth, making it an attractive location for scientists like Lavery.
"When I first met with the people from Vangunu Island in the Solomons, they told me about a rat native to the island that they called vika, which lived in the trees," says Lavery.
"I was excited because I had just started my Ph.D., and I'd read a lot of books about people who go on adventures and discover new species."
But years of searching didn't turn up any of the giant rats.
"I started to question if it really was a separate species, or if people were just calling regular black rats 'vika,'"said Lavery.
Part of what made the search so difficult was the rat's tree-dwelling lifestyle.
"If you're looking for something that lives on the ground, you're only looking in two dimensions, left to right and forward and backward.
If you're looking for something that can live in 30-foot-tall trees, then there's a whole new dimension that you need to search," explains Lavery.
Finally, one of the rats was discovered scurrying out of a felled tree.
"As soon as I examined the specimen, I knew it was something different," says Lavery.
"There are only eight known species of native rat from the Solomon Islands, and looking at the features on its skull, I could rule out a bunch of species right away."
After comparing the specimen to similar species in museum collections and checking the new rat's DNA against the DNA of its relatives, Lavery confirmed that the giant rat was a new species, which he named Uromys vika in honor of the local name for the rat.
"This project really shows the importance of collaborations with local people," says Lavery, who learned about the rat through talking with Vangunu locals and confirmed with them that the new rat matched the "vika" they knew.
Vika are a lot bigger than the black rats that spread throughout the world with European colonists -- the rats you'll see in American alleys weigh around 200 grams (0.44 pounds), Solomon Islands rats can be more than four times that size, weighing up to a kilogram (2.2 pounds).
And from the tip of its nose to the tip of its tail, U. vika is about a foot and a half long.
And while they haven't yet been observed cracking open coconuts, they do have a penchant for chewing circular holes into nuts to get at the meat.
The rat's giant size and possum-like tree-dwelling lifestyle can be traced back to its island home.
Islands are full of animals found nowhere else on earth that evolved in isolation from the rest of the world.
"Vika's ancestors probably rafted to the island on vegetation, and once they got there, they evolved into this wonderfully new species, nothing like what they came from on the mainland," explains Lavery.
While the rat has only just been discovered, it will quickly be designated as Critically Endangered, due to its rarity and the threat posed by logging to its rainforest habitat.
"It's getting to the stage for this rat that, if we hadn't discovered it now, it might never have gotten discovered.
The area where it was found is one of the only places left with forest that hasn't been logged," says Lavery.
"It's really urgent for us to be able to document this rat and find additional support for the Zaira Conservation Area on Vangunu where the rat lives.
"Lavery also emphasized the necessity of preserving the rats, not just for ecological reasons, but for the role they play in the lives of Vangunu's people.
"These animals are important parts of culture across Solomon Islands -- people have songs about them, and even children's rhymes like our 'This little piggy went to market.
'"The discovery marks an important moment in the biological study of the Solomon Islands, especially since vika is so uncommon and close to extinction.
"Finding a new mammal is really rare -- there are probably just a few dozen new mammals discovered every year," says Lavery.
"Vika was so hard to find, and the fact that I was able to persevere is something that I'm proud of."
###

This study was completed by scientists at The Field Museum and the Zaira Resource Management Area.
OAK BROOK, Ill. - Researchers have found that disconnections of brain areas involved in attention and visual processing may contribute to visual hallucinations in individuals with Parkinson's disease, according to a new study published online in the journal Radiology.
The disconnected brain areas seen on functional MRI (fMRI) may be valuable in predicting the development of visual hallucinations in patients with Parkinson's disease.
Hallucinations are sensations that seem real but are created in a person's mind.
A person having a hallucination may see, hear or feel something that is not actually there.
According to the National Parkinson Foundation, visual hallucinations can be a complication of Parkinson's disease.
"Visual hallucinations in Parkinson's disease are frequent and debilitating," said study author Dagmar H. Hepp, M.D., from the Department of Neurology and the Department of Anatomy and Neurosciences at VU University Medical Center (VUMC) in Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
"Our aim was to study the mechanism underlying visual hallucinations in Parkinson's disease, as these symptoms are currently poorly understood."
Studies using fMRI to investigate visual hallucinations in patients with Parkinson's disease are rare and have been mainly limited to task-based methods using activities that involve visual stimulation or cognitive tasks.
However, the authors note that the presence of visual hallucinations is strongly linked to the development of cognitive decline in patients with Parkinson's disease.
Cognitive deficits may influence a patient's ability to perform specific tasks during an fMRI exam.
For this study, researchers used resting-state fMRI to examine the connectivity, or communication, between brain areas.
Resting-state fMRI is a method of brain imaging that can be used to evaluate patients not performing an explicit task.
The connectivity was measured in 15 patients with visual hallucinations, 40 patients without visual hallucinations, and 15 healthy controls by calculating the level of synchronization between activation patterns of different brain areas.
The results showed that in all the patients with Parkinson's disease, multiple brain areas communicated less with the rest of the brain as compared to the control group.
However, in patients suffering from visual hallucinations, several additional brain areas showed this decreased connectivity with the rest of the brain, especially those important in maintaining attention and processing of visual information.
"We found that the areas in the brain involved in attention and visual processing were less connected to the rest of the brain," said study author Menno M. Schoonheim, Ph.D., from the Department of Anatomy and Neurosciences at VUMC.
"This suggests that disconnection of these brain areas may contribute to the generation of visual hallucinations in patients with Parkinson's disease."
While there are no direct therapeutic implications for patient care based on the research, the authors note that future studies could indicate whether techniques that could stimulate the areas with decreased connectivity could be helpful to treat visual hallucinations in people with Parkinson's disease.
###

"Loss of Functional Connectivity in Patients with Parkinson Disease and Visual Hallucinations."
Collaborating with Drs.
Hepp and Schoonheim were Elisabeth M. J. Foncke, M.D., Ph.D., Kim T. E. Olde Dubbelink, M.D., Ph.D., Wilma D. J. van de Berg, Ph.D., and Henk W. Berendse, M.D., Ph.D.

Radiology is edited by Herbert Y. Kressel, M.D., Harvard Medical School, Boston, Mass., and owned and published by the Radiological Society of North America, Inc.

RSNA is an association of over 54,600 radiologists, radiation oncologists, medical physicists and related scientists promoting excellence in patient care and health care delivery through education, research and technologic innovation.
The Society is based in Oak Brook, Ill. (RSNA.org)

For patient-friendly information on brain fMRI, visit RadiologyInfo.org.
Populations of many North American songbirds are declining, and in many cases we don't understand why--for example, whether the problem lies with reproductive success or in the survival rates of adults.
Conservation efforts need this information to be effective, and bird banding stations can help fill in the gaps, providing insights into how demographics vary across space and time.
A new study from The Condor: Ornithological Applications presents ten years of data from banding stations across northern California and southern Oregon and offers new hints on what's driving changes in the region's songbird populations.
The Klamath Bird Observatory's Sarah Rockwell and her colleagues used data collected at ten of the observatory's bird banding sites between 2002 and 2013 to estimate the abundance and reproductive productivity of twelve songbird species, all either of regional conservation concern or indicators of coniferous or riparian habitat quality.
They found that three species (the Purple Finch, Yellow-rumped Warbler, and Dark-eyed Junco), all indicators of coniferous habitat, were declining across the region, while two (the Yellow-breasted Chat and Black-headed Grosbeak) were increasing, though the trends varied from site to site.
While breeding productivity declined in three species, adult abundance was correlated with the previous year's productivity for only one species, the Yellow Warbler, suggesting that local productivity is not the primary culprit behind population declines.
"Before we can understand the impact of threats to bird populations, we first need to understand what's happening where," says John Alexander, the Executive Director of the Klamath Bird Observatory and a coauthor on the work.
"This study presents trends from regional-scale monitoring and just begins to scratch the surface of understanding population dynamics, variation in demographic rates, and drivers of population change across our landscape, which is vital information for developing effective conservation plans.
It also highlights concerns about forest-associated species in this region--the need to balance timber harvest, a mixed-severity fire regime, and endangered species management continue to present complex conservation challenges."
"We have been so lucky to consistently get awesome field crews--we host six to ten interns each year, and they travel all over the Klamath-Siskiyou bioregion, camping regularly throughout the field season.
We have had interns from more than seventeen different countries, and they all receive extensive training and work very hard," adds Rockwell.
"This work is so important.
We need robust baseline data if we are going to be aware of any kind of population change, let alone be able to do something about it!"
###

"Spatial variation in songbird demographic trends from a regional network of banding stations in the Pacific Northwest" will be available September 27, 2017, at http://www.
bioone.
org/ doi/ full/ 10.
1650/ CONDOR-17-44.
1 (issue URL http://www.
bioone.
org/ toc/ cond/ 119/ 4 ).
About the journal: The Condor: Ornithological Applications is a peer-reviewed, international journal of ornithology.
It began in 1899 as the journal of the Cooper Ornithological Club, a group of ornithologists in California that became the Cooper Ornithological Society, which merged with the American Ornithologists' Union in 2016 to become the American Ornithological Society.
In 2016, The Condor had the number one impact factor among 24 ornithology journals, 2.654.
About Klamath Bird Observatory: Based in Ashland, Oregon, KBO is a scientific non-profit organization that achieves bird conservation in the Pacific Northwest and throughout the migratory ranges of the birds of our region.
Emphasizing high caliber science and the role of birds as indicators of the health of the land, KBO specializes in cost-effective bird monitoring and research projects that improve natural resource management.
Also, recognizing that conservation occurs across many fronts, we nurture a conservation ethic in our communities through our outreach and educational programs.
Vocal communication is central to the lives of many birds, which use sound to attract mates and defend territories.
Penguins are no exception, but we know little about how or why penguin vocalizations vary geographically between isolated populations.
A new study from The Auk: Ornithological Advances takes a broad look at vocalizations across the range of Gentoo Penguins and concludes that while their calls do vary from place to place, we still have a lot to learn about the processes at work.
The Gentoo Penguin's "ecstatic" call, consisting of repeated pairs of short syllables, is used to attract and contact mates.
Maureen Lynch and her PhD advisor Dr. Heather Lynch (no relation) of Stony Brook University recorded ecstatic calls at 22 Gentoo Penguin colonies across the Antarctic Peninsula, southern Argentina, and nearby islands.
While they found variation in call frequency and duration both within and between colonies, no clear patterns emerged based on latitude, region, or subspecies.
An algorithm based on their data was able to classify calls to correct colonies better than random, but with a high error rate.
Their results suggest that the vocal characteristics of colonies drift independently of each other over time.
Within colonies, it may be beneficial for individuals to differ in their calls so that they can tell each other apart.
"There is so much that we still do not know about penguin vocal behavior," says Heather.
"We see this as being very much the beginning, rather than the end, of understanding how penguins communicate, how and if such communications play a functional role in protection against predators, choice of mates, and breeding site selection."
"Work in the Antarctic is always challenging, and this project was time- and data-intensive, with data collection over three field seasons," adds Maureen.
"Unexpected challenges came from flying birds rather than penguins.
The recording units hold up well in the Antarctic elements and can even record over winter, but I learned the hard way that if I leave a Song Meter unattended in the Falkland Islands, the Striated Caracaras will eat the windscreens off the microphones and can actually pull the microphones off."
"Understanding the drivers of population differentiation is increasingly important for species such as penguins that are being impacted by climate change," according to Fordham University's J. Alan Clark, a penguin behavior researcher who was not involved in the study.
"This study, the largest of its kind, takes a creative and rigorous approach to exploring the role of vocalizations in population differentiation across a wide geographic range and across populations with known intraspecific genetic variation.
The results of this study provide practical insights that help set the stage for future research on interactions between speciation processes and climate change."
###

"Variation in the ecstatic display call of the Gentoo Penguin (Pygoscelis papua) across regional geographic scales" will be available September 27, 2017, at http://www.
bioone.
org/ doi/ full/ 10.
1642/ AUK-17-4.
1 (issue URL http://www.
bioone.
org/ toc/ tauk/ 134/ 4 ).
About the journal: The Auk: Ornithological Advances is a peer-reviewed, international journal of ornithology that began in 1884 as the official publication of the American Ornithologists' Union, which merged with the Cooper Ornithological Society in 2016 to become the American Ornithological Society.
In 2009, The Auk was honored as one of the 100 most influential journals of biology and medicine over the past 100 years.
A new RAND report proposes that despite their differences, Russia, China and the United States should act jointly to head off a little-recognized security threat -- the proliferation of hypersonic missiles beyond the three nations.
The spread of this new class of weapons would increase the chance of strategic (missile-based) wars and would jeopardize nations small and large -- including the three nations that now have the technology, according to the study, which is the first-ever detailed examination of the issue.
Hypersonic missiles -- including both hypersonic glide vehicles and hypersonic cruise missiles -- are a new class of threat because they are capable both of maneuvering and of flying faster than 5,000 kilometers per hour, more than five-times faster than traditional cruise missiles.
These features allow such missiles to penetrate most missile defenses and compress the timelines for a response by a nation under attack.
Hypersonic missiles are being developed by the United States, Russia and China.
Their further proliferation could result in other powers setting their forces on hair-trigger states of readiness, according to researchers.
And such proliferation could enable other powers to more credibly threaten attacks on major powers.
The diffusion of hypersonic technology is underway in Europe, Japan, Australia and India, with many nations beginning to explore such technology.
Proliferation could cross multiple borders if hypersonic technology is offered on world markets, leaving little time available to prevent proliferation.
"Hypersonic missile proliferation would increase the chances of strategic war," said Richard Speier, lead author of the report and a political scientist at the RAND Corporation, a nonprofit research organization.
"It would give nations an incentive to become trigger-happy."
According to researchers, there is probably less than a decade available to substantially hinder the potential proliferation of hypersonic missiles and associated technologies.
The report recommends that the United States, Russia and China agree not to export to other nations complete hypersonic missile systems or their major components.
In addition, the broader international community should establish controls on a wider range of hypersonic missile hardware and technology.
###

This report was sponsored by the Carnegie Corporation of New York for its project Disruptive Technologies and the Future of Deterrence.
The report, "Hypersonic Missile Nonproliferation: Hindering the Spread of a New Class of Weapons," is available at http://www.
Other authors of the report are George Nacouzi, Carrie Lee and Richard M. Moore.
This research was conducted within the International Security and Defense Policy Center of the RAND National Defense Institute.
When children develop kidney disease, it can play out in dramatically different ways.
They can experience relatively mild disorders that respond to existing treatments and only impact their lives for the short term.
Children also can develop chronic kidney disease that defies current treatments and can imperil or end their lives.
Fewer than 50 percent of pharmaceuticals approved by federal authorities are explicitly approved for use in kids, and even fewer devices are labeled for pediatric use.
Congress has offered incentives to manufacturers who study their treatments in children, but the laws do not require drug makers to demonstrate statistical significance or for the clinical trial to improve or extend children's lives.
To overcome such daunting obstacles, the American Society of Pediatric Nephrology established a Therapeutics Development Committee to forge more effective public-private partnerships and to outline strategies to design and carry out pediatric nephrology clinical trials more expeditiously and effectively.
"We have seen how other pediatric subspecialties, such as cancer and arthritis, have leveraged similar consortia to address mutual concerns and to facilitate development of new therapeutics specific to those diseases," says Marva Moxey-Mims, M.D., chief of the Division of Nephrology at Children's National Health System and a founding committee member.
"As a group, we aim to collectively identify and remedy the most pressing needs in pediatric nephrology.
As just one example, the committee could help to increase the number of sites that host research studies, could expand the pool of potential study volunteers and could lower the chances of duplicating efforts."
A paper summarizing their efforts thus far, "Enhancing clinical trial development for pediatric kidney diseases," written by Dr. Moxey-Mims and 15 co-authors, was published online Aug. 30 by Pediatric Research.
The journal's editors will feature the review article in the "Editor's Focus" of an upcoming print edition of the publication.
The committee is comprised of academic pediatric nephrologists, patient advocates, private pharmaceutical company representatives and public employees at the Food and Drug Administration and the National Institutes of Health.
But it is likely to grow in size and in stakeholder diversity.
Already, committee members have learned that they achieve better results by working together.
Early communication can avoid flaws in designing clinical trials, such as overestimating the volume of clinical samples that can feasibly be collected from a small child, or that could misinterpret the type of data needed to secure federal approval.
While public and private investigators took similar approaches to clinical trial design, academic investigators were more conceptual as they summarized their study design Road Map.
Industry representatives, by contrast, included more granular detail about study organization and milestones along the path toward regulatory approval.
According to the study authors, both groups understand the critical role that patients and families can play in early research study design, such as accelerating patient recruitment, bolstering the credibility of research and helping to translate research results into actual clinical practice.
"We are pleased to have created a forum that allows participants to share valuable viewpoints and concerns and to understand how regulations and laws could be changed to facilitate development of effective medicines for children with kidney disease," says Dr. Moxey-Mims.
"We hope the relationships and trust forged through these conversations help to speed the development and approval of the next generation of therapies for pediatric renal disease."
The team of Osaka and Iwate Medical University efficiently developed new and highly pure screw-shaped molecules for use in drug synthesis

Osaka - In the same way a glove will only fit one hand, molecules have the symmetry that controls their behavior and interactions.
In drug design, this means reversing the symmetry of a molecule can mean the difference between an effective treatment or a compound that has serious negative effects.
As a further complication, making chemicals as a single pure mirror image, or separating mixtures of the two types, is very difficult.
Now a team of chemists of Osaka and Iwate Medical University has now developed a highly efficient way to make a unique screw-like chemical that could offer new routes to pure mirror images of other molecules.
They reported their findings in Organic Letters.
"The twisted shape of helicenes makes them ideal for use in asymmetric catalysis" lead author Tetsuya Tsujihara says.
"We previously developed a simple synthesis and resolution for this class of molecule and now, for the first time, we have added a thiophene group."
Helicene is a molecule with six hexagonal benzene molecules fused together so the rings twist back over themselves out of the plane of the molecule.
The direction of the twist is locked, meaning two possible helices are possible, each a mirror image of the other.
Think of the way a screw might turn clockwise or anticlockwise depending on the direction of the thread.
The researchers built upon their earlier studies, making and separating the two mirror images of helicene molecules.
This time they changed their structure to include a new sulfur-containing group.
This change could allow the screw-shaped molecules to be used as asymmetric catalysts for controlling interactions of other chemicals in reactions to directly produce molecules of a single mirror image.
"Adding the thiophene group is new development of the helicene skeleton, which should change the physical properties of the molecule and make these much more interesting to materials scientists," coauthor Tomikazu Kawano says.
"We are also continuing to explore the promising asymmetric reactivity of these twisted catalysts."
Osaka - Making a magnet from a piece of iron and a coil or wire, or another magnet, is a simple experiment.
An external electric or magnetic field can align groups of atoms in the iron over time so that they take on their own permanent magnetic field.
A similar accelerated process stores information on computer hard disks.
A special case of magnetism, known as ferrimagnetism, could enable even faster switching of magnetism, leading to massive improvements in the way computers handle information.
Now, an international research group, led by Osaka University physicists, has provided new insight into how the composition of ferrimagnetic materials can affect their interactions with light.
They recently reported their findings in Applied Physics Express.
"We know that laser pulses can reverse the magnetization in certain ferrimagnetic alloys, but light also affects other properties of the material," coauthor Hidenori Fujiwara says.
"To learn more about the interactions of the magnetism with light, we studied the spin dynamics of ferrimagnetic thin films containing different proportions of gadolinium."
Ferrimagnetic materials can be thought of as a mixture of electrons spinning at different sites in the material.
Some of the spins might cancel each other out, but a certain residual magnetization will remain.
Firing an ultra-fast laser pulse at the material may completely flip the spin direction, reversing the magnetism, or may disrupt the spins, causing a kind of wobbling known as spin precession.
The type of behavior shown strongly depends on the material's temperature and composition.
The researchers used an advanced synchrotron measurement setup developed in their previous studies to show that slightly varying the composition of an alloy dramatically changed its response to the laser pulse.
Slightly more gadolinium in the films led to flipping of the magnetic spin; slightly less led to spin precession at room temperature.
The researchers' setup could also visualize the wave-like nature of the spin precession over a few nanoseconds following the laser pulse.
They showed that the angle of precision, or the angle of the spin wobble, was the largest reported to date.
"These are complex systems with many different interacting properties, but we have extracted some clear relationships between the composition of a ferrimagnetic alloy and its magnetic interactions with light," coauthor Akira Sekiyama says.
"Understanding these behaviors is important from a fundamental physics standpoint, and essential for applying these material systems in advanced electronic devices."
Like a string of pearls, the spine is made of a series of similar vertebrae.
A so-called segmentation clock creates this repetitive arrangement in developing embryos: Each time the clock ticks, a vertebra starts to form.
In a paper published Sept. 21 in Cell, Harvard Medical School genetics professor Olivier Pourqui--whose lab discovered the segmentation clock 20 years ago--and colleagues report that they used mouse cells to reconstitute a stable version of this clockwork for the first time in a petri dish, leading to several new discoveries about where the clock is located, what makes it tick and how the vertebral column takes shape.
The team's insights not only illuminate normal vertebrate development but also could lead to improved understanding of human spinal defects such as scoliosis, said Pourqui, who is also the Harvard Medical School Frank Burr Mallory Professor of Pathology at Brigham and Women's Hospital and a principal faculty member of the Harvard Stem Cell Institute.
The researchers found that the segmentation clock lies quiescent in individual embryonic cells that give rise to the vertebrae, then clicks on all at once, collectively, when the cells reach a critical mass.
The researchers further discovered that the clock is controlled by two signals, Notch and Yap, that are sent and received by these cells.
On its own, they found, Notch starts the clock ticking by triggering cellular oscillations that release instructions to build structures that will ultimately become vertebrae.
But Notch isn't the only signal in town.
It turns out that the cells' Yap chatter determines the amount of Notch required to activate the segmentation clock.
If Yap is very low, then the clock runs on its own.
If Yap levels are "medium," said Pourqui, then Notch is needed to start the clock.
And if Yap levels are high, even a lot of Notch won't convince the clock to tick.
Scientists call this an excitability threshold.
"If you stimulate the system a little, nothing happens.
But if you stimulate it a little more and cross the threshold, then the system has a very strong response," explained Pourqui.
The researchers theorize that the segmentation clock works like other excitable biological systems that require certain thresholds to be met before sparking an action, such as neurons firing and calcium waves traveling across heart cells.
"There are probably similarities in the underlying circuits," Pourqui said.
The researchers were surprised to find that they could stop and restart the segmentation clock in several ways--physically, by separating and re-aggregating the cells, and chemically, with a Yap-blocking drug.
"For many years, we have been trying to understand the clockwork underlying these oscillations," said Pourqui.
"Now we have a great theoretical framework to understand what generates them and to help us make and test more hypotheses."
###

Pourqui shared senior authorship of the paper with Lakshminarayanan Mahadevan, the Lola England de Valpine Professor of Applied Mathematics, of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology, and of Physics at Harvard University and a core member of the Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering.
Alexis Hubaud, a former postdoctoral fellow in the Pourqui lab who is now at the Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research, was first author of the study.
Ido Regev, a former postdoctoral fellow in the Mahadevan lab who is currently at Ben-Gurion University of the Negev in Israel, was also an author.
This study was funded by the European Research Council, the National Institutes of Health (grant R01HD085121) and the Human Frontier Science Program.
Authors were additionally supported by fellowships from the French Ministry of Higher Education and Research, Fondation pour la Recherche Mdicale (FDT20140930947), Schlumberger Foundation and MacArthur Foundation.
A reduction in the systematic and aggressive enforcement of minor violations by police may reduce major crime complaints, suggests a paper published this week in Nature Human Behaviour.
This finding challenges conventional thoughts on the relationship between authority and compliance.
The last few decades have seen widespread adoption of proactive policing strategies that are thought to discourage more serious criminal activity.
These crime deterrence measures include the patrolling of communities, and increases in police stops, summonses and low-level arrests.
However, their efficacy is an ongoing topic of debate.
Proactive policing has also come under intense public scrutiny for its disproportionate impacts on low-income and communities of color resulting in potentially discriminatory practices.
In this study, LSU Department of Political Science Assistant Professor Christopher Sullivan and collaborator Zachary O'Keeffe, a University of Michigan Ph.D. student, gathered baseline New York Police Department, or NYPD, crime data from 2013-2016.
They studied a specific 7-week period in late 2014 and early 2015 when the NYPD effectively halted proactive policing in response to anti-police brutality protests following the death of Eric Garner.
From this data, the researchers have been able to draw causal conclusions about the relationship between proactive policing measures and major crime complaints.
Their results show that public complaints of major crimes, including murder, rape, robbery, felony assault, burglary, grand larceny and grand theft auto, declined by 3-6 percent during the halt on proactive policing.
They also show that under-reporting of crime did not bias the results.
"The results are striking," Sullivan said.
"'Order Maintenance style' policing tactics have been shown to increase economic and political inequality, destabilize communities and impair the mental health of young people.
Finding that proactive policing may also be counter-productive in deterring major crime suggests that it is time to reconsider where, how and why proactive policing is deployed."
The researchers conclude that certain policing tactics may result in serious criminal activity.
They also speculate that proactive policing reform may decrease rates of major crime and increase well-being in heavily policed communities.
Further research is needed to understand the long-term effects of a reduction in proactive policing as well as the generalizability of these findings to locations other than New York City.
After a nine-week voyage to study the lost, submerged continent of Zealandia in the South Pacific, a team of 32 scientists from 12 countries has arrived in Hobart, Tasmania, aboard the research vessel JOIDES Resolution.
Researchers affiliated with the International Ocean Discovery Program (IODP) mounted the expedition to explore Zealandia.
IODP is a collaboration of scientists from 23 countries; the organization coordinates voyages to study the history of the Earth recorded in sediments and rocks beneath the seafloor.
"Zealandia, a sunken continent long lost beneath the oceans, is giving up its 60 million-year-old secrets through scientific ocean drilling," said Jamie Allan, program director in the U.S. National Science Foundation's Division of Ocean Sciences, which supports IODP.
"This expedition offered insights into Earth's history, ranging from mountain-building in New Zealand to the shifting movements of Earth's tectonic plates to changes in ocean circulation and global climate," Allan said.
Earlier this year, Zealandia was confirmed as Earth's seventh continent, but little is known about it because it's submerged more than a kilometer (two-thirds of a mile) under the sea.
Until now, the region has been sparsely surveyed and sampled.
Expedition scientists drilled deep into the seabed at six sites in water depths of more than 1,250 meters (4,101 feet).
They collected 2,500 meters (8,202 feet) of sediment cores from layers that record how the geography, volcanism and climate of Zealandia have changed over the last 70 million years.
According to expedition co-chief scientist Gerald Dickens of Rice University in the U.S., significant new fossil discoveries were made.
They prove that Zealandia was not always as deep beneath the waves as it is today.
"More than 8,000 specimens were studied, and several hundred fossil species were identified," said Dickens.
"The discovery of microscopic shells of organisms that lived in warm shallow seas, and of spores and pollen from land plants, reveal that the geography and climate of Zealandia were dramatically different in the past."
The new discoveries show that the formation 40 to 50 million years ago of the "Pacific Ring of Fire," an active seafloor zone along the perimeter of the Pacific Ocean, caused dramatic changes in ocean depth and volcanic activity and buckled the seabed of Zealandia, according to Dickens.
Expedition co-chief scientist Rupert Sutherland of Victoria University of Wellington in New Zealand said researchers had believed that Zealandia was submerged when it separated from Australia and Antarctica about 80 million years ago.
"That is still probably accurate, but it is now clear that dramatic later events shaped the continent we explored on this voyage," Sutherland said.
"Big geographic changes across northern Zealandia, which is about the same size as India, have implications for understanding questions such as how plants and animals dispersed and evolved in the South Pacific.
"The discovery of past land and shallow seas now provides an explanation.
There were pathways for animals and plants to move along."
Studies of the sediment cores obtained during the expedition will focus on understanding how Earth's tectonic plates move and how the global climate system works.
Records of Zealandia's history, expedition scientists said, will provide a sensitive test for computer models used to predict future changes in climate.
A research team led by DGIST Professor Moon Cheil at the Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences has identified the reason why the patients with the early stage of Alzheimer's fail to smell.
The research team of Professor Moon Cheil conducted a joint research with the research teams led by Professor Suh Yoo-Hun and Chang Keun-A at Gachon Medical School and they have revealed the mechanism of the relationship between the initial progression of Alzheimer's and the olfactory dysfunction.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most representative degenerative brain disease, accounting for 60 to 80% of all dementia cases.
The greatest known risk factor is aging as the majority of people with Alzheimer's are 65 and older.
In particular, Alzheimer's disease is becoming a serious social problem in Korea as the number of patients with degenerative brain disease increases as the country is entering an aging society at an unprecedented rate.
Currently, there is no underlying cure for dementia, but early detection of dementia may be able to ameliorate or delay the onset of symptoms.
Some of the drugs available in the market are also focused on relief or delay of symptoms rather than direct treatment itself of dementia.
Since those treatments are effective only when administered in a timely manner, it is important to diagnose Alzheimer's in the early stage.
In the initial stage of Alzheimer's disease, it is known that a toxic protein called 'beta- amyloid' is abnormally overexpressed and accumulates in the brain and adversely affect neuronal cells.
The sooner Alzheimer's is diagnosed, the greater the chance for perfect cure.
Hence, there has been a worldwide effort underway to find inexpensive, but accurate way to detect early-stage AD.
In particular, recent studies have reported the association between Alzheimer's and olfactory deterioration by suggesting that the initial symptoms of Alzheimer's can be simply checked in the olfactory test using peanut butter.
However, the specific mechanism was not clearly revealed.
Professor Moon's research team paid attention to the olfactory dysfunction in the early stage of Alzheimer's dementia and studied not only the brain, the central nervous system, but also the peripheral nervous system, the olfactory nervous system.
The researchers carried out a behavioral experiment using an animal model with Alzheimer's and have confirmed that the initial olfactory dysfunction, which is found in Alzheimer's disease, is progressed in the six-month-old, earlier than in the fourteen-month-old when brain cognitive dysfunction occurs.
The AD brain has been histologically characterized by the presence of neuritic plaques - inflammatory lesion of nerves - and tangles of neuro-fibril, which are composed of protein aggregates of amyloid  (A, beta-amyloid) and tau; the A is known to be expressed only in the central nervous system.
However, the research team also detected direct expression of A in the olfactory epithelium, a peripheral nervous system, itself.
Furthermore, it has also been proved that A has a fatal effect on the olfactory nerve cell in olfactory epithelium and directly induces the failure of olfactory function.
Professor Mon Cheil said "We have discovered an important clue to predict the onset of Alzheimer's disease in the early stage by identifying the mechanism of beta-amyloid expression in the initial stage of Alzheimer's that was unknown until now.
We will carry out the follow-up researches that can be used for the development of early detection of dementia, dementia treatment technology, and more."
This study has been published in the online edition of Cell Death & Disease, the sister journal of Nature, on August 10.
The study was implemented by the 'Biomedical Technology Development Project' supported by the Korea Research Foundation.
###

For more information, contact:

Professor Moon Cheil

Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences

Daegu Gyeongbuk Institute of Science and Technology (DGIST)

E-mail : cmoon@dgist.ac.kr

Associated Links: Research Paper on Journal of Cell Death and Disease
Lehigh University researchers have formulated a mathematical solution that could help minimize noise, maximize aerodynamics in design of porous airfoils (2D wings) to improve wind turbines and air vehicles

Many species of owl are able to hunt without being heard by their prey by suppressing the noise of their wings at sound frequencies above 1.6 kilohertz (kHz) -- including the range at which human hearing is most sensitive.
Owl wing porosity (the quality that allows air to pass resistively through the wings) helps in suppressing noise.
Numerous aero-acoustic studies have examined the effect of wing porosity, inspired by the quiet plumage features of owls.
However, much less is known about how wing porosity affects the aerodynamics of these wings, which likely competes with the acoustic benefits of porosity.
Now, researchers at Lehigh University have formulated and solved for exactly the aerodynamic loads on an airfoil, or 2-D wing-like structure.
Their mathematical formula uses arbitrary realistic porosity distributions, which may be used in conjunction with an aero-acoustic theory, to determine the aerodynamic/aero-acoustic tradeoff of porous wing designs.
The work has been described in a paper to be published in Proceedings of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences called "The steady aerodynamics of aerofoils with porosity gradients."
The work could ultimately be used to improve man-made aerodynamic design of wind turbines and specialized aircraft or autonomous drones.
"Exploratory experimental work by other researchers has measured the noise and aerodynamics of airfoils constructed from various porous materials over a range of flow speeds," said Justin W. Jaworski , assistant professor of mechanical engineering and mechanics and co-author of the paper.
"Our work generalizes the existing theory to yield results for arbitrary porosity distributions along the airfoil and produces a porosity parameter that collapses all of the experimental data onto a single curve."
He adds: "Our general result--a single, explicit expression that solves the central mathematical problem without approximation--has the potential to be integrated into the aerodynamic/aero-acoustic design of the wings and blades of small air vehicles, wind turbines, or drones seeking to minimize their noise footprint through passive means."
According to Jaworski, the team's mathematical analysis was built upon classical aerodynamic theory.
Interestingly, the key information to obtain an exact result with general porosity distributions came from an old Russian text.
"Perhaps most surprising was the discovery that the mathematical problem could be formulated very generally and solved in closed form without resorting to unnecessary approximations," said Rozhin Hajian, co-author of the paper and a mechanical engineering PhD student at Lehigh.
Using their formula, the results for the pressure distribution on a wing from any given description of the porosity and curvature of a wing section can be determined explicitly from a single equation--a tool that could be of major interest to designers seeking to minimize noise while maximizing aerodynamic properties.
"The fact that our result is explicit and in closed form for arbitrary porosity distributions makes it easy to implement in analyses of aerodynamics vs aero-acoustics to anticipate whether or not a particular porosity design will be effective for a given application," said Jaworski.
Three seemingly unrelated praying mantis groups inhabiting Cuba and the rest of the Greater Antilles actually share an ancient African ancestor and possibly form the oldest endemic animal lineage on the Caribbean islands, Cleveland Museum of Natural History researchers have determined.
Mantises from the African lineage landed on the Greater Antilles islands more than 92 million years ago, likely hitching a ride on floating ocean debris.
They were present tens of millions of years before other mantis groups arrived from Central and South America, and also before animals such as land snails, lizards and shrews got to the islands.
Although the ancestral mantis lineage in Africa went extinct, its descendants in the Greater Antilles have evolved in drastically different directions and have endured there.
They even survived the massive comet or asteroid impact in the nearby Gulf of Mexico 66 million years ago that is thought to have helped exterminate most life on Earth.
"It's extraordinary that a single lineage of mantises has been able to persist for more than 90 million years within a small island system," says Museum Curator of Invertebrate Zoology and Assistant Director of Science Gavin Svenson, Ph.D., the study's lead author "Never have these three endemic mantises been linked as close relatives, since they look so different from each other.
Discovering that they came to the islands from an African ancestor was remarkable.
It speaks to how much more there is to learn, even for animals we think we know a lot about."
Dr. Svenson and Ph.D. candidate Henrique Rodrigues, a biology graduate student at Case Western Reserve University, report their findings in a study published online September 27, 2017, in the journal Proceedings of the Royal Society B.

Dr. Svenson is an internationally recognized praying mantis authority.
His lab at the Museum contains more than 13,000 mantis specimens from his own field research and on loan from other museum collections.
It is the largest such assemblage in the Western Hemisphere.
To trace the Antilles mantises' history, Dr. Svenson and Rodrigues collected specimens of the three endemic mantis groups and used DNA analysis and computer-based methods to reconstruct the timing and location of their origins.
Previous efforts to explain how living things colonized the Greater Antilles have been hampered by the islands' complex geographic history.
The islands' locations have shifted as Earth's continents and tectonic plates moved around.
In the distant past, the Greater Antilles were close to - or sometimes connected with - Central and South America.
The island chain's changing location relative to larger land masses makes it hard for scientists to determine when and how various animals arrived there, and whether individual species are related.
Most studies have focused on vertebrates and plants, even though there are more than two times as many native terrestrial arthropods on the Greater Antilles as there are plants and vertebrate animals combined.
Deciphering the origins of the three main praying mantis groups on the islands is made more complex by their appearance.
Mantises of the Callimantis, Epaphrodita and Gonatista genera don't look or act like each other, even though they live in the same, relatively small, geographic area.
Instead, they resemble nonrelated mantises from South America and Africa.
Despite their appearance differences, the three Greater Antilles endemic mantis groups actually are connected by a common ancestor, the Museum researchers' analysis showed.
They likely descended from a single western African praying mantis lineage that dispersed to the Greater Antilles more than 92 million years ago.
Although it's possible the insects flew across the ocean, the more probable scenario is that flotsam transported pregnant females or hardy egg cases.
Once present on the Greater Antilles, the African mantises embarked on distinctly different evolutionary paths, adapting their body features and lifestyles to specific habitats and conditions within the island chain.
Members of Epaphrodita, for example, camouflage themselves by mimicking dead leaves, while Gonatista camouflage as bark and dwell on tree trunks.
The three Greater Antilles mantis groups' resemblance to various mantises from outside the Caribbean isn't due to close kinship; instead, it's an example of convergent evolution, where different lineages independently evolve similar traits because they occupy similar environments.
It's a reminder that the praying mantis family tree shouldn't be organized based solely on appearance.
Dr. Svenson has spent much of his career revising mantis classifications and relationships using modern genetics techniques.
Although the African emigrant mantises have done well in their adopted home, they have not spread beyond the Caribbean islands, with the exception of a single Cuban species, Gonatista grisea, that has become established in the southern United States.
Otherwise, the Greater Antilles mantises may not be adaptable to mainland conditions, or perhaps can't cope with the larger mix of competitors and predators beyond the islands.
The mantises' newfound origins and long-term persistence on the Greater Antilles add an important chapter to the islands' evolutionary history, Dr. Svenson says.
"Studying older insect groups, such as praying mantises, can greatly expand our knowledge of early island history and uncover unique lineages important to global biodiversity, not to mention Caribbean biodiversity," he says.
"Evidence from early insects can also inform or corroborate our ideas of Caribbean ecosystem formation or geologic history."
###

Original Source: Gavin J. Svenson1 and Henrique M. Rodrigues, (2017) A Cretaceous-aged Palaeotropical dispersal established an endemic lineage of Caribbean praying mantises, Proceedings of the Royal Society B

Contact: Gavin Svenson, Ph.D.

gsvenson@cmnh.org
Before you read on, look for toothbrushes in the photo above.
Find them?
Both of them?
If you're like the vast majority of people, you honed in on the one near the sink, but probably took a moment or two before seeing the other, much larger one hanging on the wall.
Although it is technically much more visible and not out of context, for a while at least, your brain excluded that enormous blue toothbrush in your visual search.
As it turns out, size matters.
When we search through scenes for a particular object, we often miss even giant targets when their size is inconsistent with the rest of the scene.
That's according to scientists at UC Santa Barbara, where this curious phenomenon is being investigated in an effort to better understand how humans conduct visual searches.
These new findings, by researchers in the Department of Psychological & Brain Sciences, are published in the journal Current Biology.
"When something appears at the wrong scale, you will miss it more often because your brain automatically ignores it," said UCSB professor Miguel Eckstein, who specializes in computational human vision, visual attention and search.
Using scenes of ordinary objects where 14 targets were featured in computer-generated images that varied in color, viewing angle and size, mixed with "target-absent" scenes, the researchers asked 60 viewers to search for these objects (e.g.
toothbrush, parking meter, computer mouse) while eye-tracking software monitored the paths of their gaze.
They found that people tended to miss the target more often when it was mis-scaled, even when their gaze was directed to the incorrectly sized object.
Computer vision, by contrast, does not have this issue, the scientists reported.
"The idea is when you first see a scene, your brain rapidly processes it within a few hundred milliseconds or less, and then you use that information to guide your search towards likely locations where the object typically appears," Eckstein said.
"Also, you focus your attention on objects that are actually at the size that is consistent with the object that you're looking for."
The most advanced computer vision -- deep neural networks -- search across entire scenes and use the visual properties of the object itself, while humans also use the relationships between objects and their context within the scene to guide their eyes.
This trend may seem like a deficiency on the part of humans, but the tables were turned when human subjects and a deep neural network were asked to verify the presence of different target objects in real-world scenes that may or may not have them.
In that round, the deep neural network reported a much higher percentage of false positives.
That is, they confirmed the presence of, say, a cellphone in a scene where there were computer keyboards because of their similarity in shape -- despite the fact that keyboards are several times larger than a cellphone and, in the photo, are much larger than the nearby hands that would be holding them.
"No human would do that," added former graduate Katie Koehler, now working at Riot Games.
"Just based on the size your brain would automatically discard it."
This mechanism, according to the researchers, is in fact a useful strategy implemented by human brains to process scenes rapidly, eliminate distractors and reduce false positives.
While this blindness due to inconsistent size may be an unwanted byproduct of the human brain's search strategy, such scenarios are rare in the real world.
With repeated exposure to the unusual scenario, human observers will eventually adapt their visual searches to accommodate it.
"The findings might suggest ways to improve computer vision by implementing some of the tricks the brain utilizes to reduce false positives," said former postdoctoral researcher Emre Akbas, now an assistant professor of computer engineering at Middle East Technical University in Turkey, who was responsible for the computer vision components of the project.
According to Eckstein, some people on the autism spectrum might not miss the large targets in a scene.
He is contemplating a study on that topic in the future.
"There are some theories that suggest that people with autism spectrum disorder focus more on local scene information and less on global structure," he said.
"So there is a possibility that people with autism spectrum disorder might miss the mis-scaled objects less often, but we won't know that until we do the study."
In the more immediate future, research will look into the brain activity that occurs when we view mis-scaled objects.
"Many studies have identified brain regions that process scenes and objects, and now researchers are trying to understand which particular properties of scenes and objects are represented in these regions," said postdoctoral researcher Lauren Welbourne, whose current research concentrates on how objects are represented in the cortex, and how scene context influences the perception of objects.
"And so what we're trying to do is find out how these brain areas respond to objects that are either correctly or incorrectly scaled within a scene.
This may help us determine which regions are responsible for making it more difficult for us to find objects if they are mis-scaled."
(Portland, Ore.) Sept. 25, 2017 - Researchers at Portland State University found benzene and other potentially cancer-causing chemicals in the vapor produced by butane hash oil, a cannabis extract.
Their study raises health concerns about dabbing, or vaporizing hash oil - a practice that is growing in popularity, especially in states that have legalized medical or recreational marijuana.
Dabbing is already controversial.
The practice consists of placing a small amount of cannabis extract -- a dab -- on a heated surface and inhaling the resulting vapor.
The practice has raised concerns because it produces extremely high levels of cannabinoids -- the active ingredients in marijuana.
The process of making hash oil also is dangerous because it uses highly flammable and potentially explosive butane as a solvent to extract active ingredients from marijuana leaves and flowers.
In July, two people in Portland, OR, died in an explosion and fire at a home where butane hash oil was being manufactured.
"Given the widespread legalization of marijuana in the USA, it is imperative to study the full toxicology of its consumption to guide future policy," said Rob Strongin, a Portland State professor who led the study.
"The results of these studies clearly indicate that dabbing, while considered a form of vaporization, may in fact deliver significant amounts of toxins."
Strongin and his team analyzed the chemical profile of terpenes - the fragrant oils in marijuana and other plants - by vaporizing them in much the same way as a user would vaporize hash oil.
Terpenes are also used in e-cigarette liquids.
Previous experiments by Strongin and his colleagues at Portland State found toxic chemicals in e-cigarette vapor when the devices were used at high temperature settings.
The dabbing experiments produced benzene - a known carcinogen -- at levels many times higher than the ambient air, Strongin said.
It also produced high levels of methacrolein, a chemical similar to acrolein, another carcinogen.
Their findings were published in the Sept. 22 issue of "ACS Omega," a journal of the American Chemical Society.
###

About Portland State University (PSU)
Over the last 17 years, scientists and engineers have developed synthetic gene circuits that can program the functionality, performance, and behavior of living cells.
Analogous to integrated circuits that underlie myriad electronic products, engineered gene circuits can be used to generate defined dynamics, rewire endogenous networks, sense environmental stimuli, and produce valuable biomolecules.
These gene circuits hold great promise in medical and biotechnological applications, such as combating super bugs, producing advanced biofuels, and manufacturing functional materials.
To date, most circuits are constructed through a trial-and-error manner, which relies heavily on a designer's intuition and is often inefficient, said University of Illinois Bioengineering Associate Professor Ting Lu.
"With the increase of circuit complexity, the lack of predictive design guidelines has become a major challenge in realizing the potential of synthetic biology," said Lu, who also is affiliated with the Carl R. Woese Institute for Genomic Biology and Physics Department at Illinois.
Researchers have turned to quantitative modeling to address this gene circuit design challenge.
Typical models regard gene circuits as isolated entities that do not interact with their hosts and focus only on the biochemical processes within the circuits, noted Lu.
"Although highly valuable, the current modeling paradigm is often incapable of quantitatively, or even qualitatively sometimes, describing circuit behaviors," he said.
"Increasing experimental evidences have suggested that circuits and their biological host are intimately connected and their coupling can impact circuit behaviors significantly."
Lu and his graduate students, Chen Liao and Andrew Blanchard, recently addressed the challenge by constructing an integrated modeling framework for quantitatively describing and predicting gene circuit behaviors.
Using Escherichia coli (E. coli) as a model host, the framework consists of a coarse-grained but mechanistic description of host physiology that involves dynamic resource partitioning, multi-layered circuit-host coupling, and a detailed kinetic module of exogenous circuits.
The team demonstrated that, following training, the framework was able to capture and predict a large set of experimental data concerning the host and simple gene overexpression.
For instance, they discovered that ppGpp-mediated effects are the key to understanding constitutive gene expression under environmental changes, including both nutrient and antibiotic changes.
The team also demonstrated the utility of the platform by applying it to examine a growth-modulating feedback circuit whose dynamics is qualitatively altered by circuit-host couplings and revealing the behaviors of a toggle switch across scales from single-cell dynamics to population structure and to spatial ecology.
Although Lu's framework was established using E. coli as the model host, it has the potential to be generalized for describing multiple host organisms.
"For example, we found that, by varying only a single parameter, the framework successfully predicted several key host metrics, including RNA-to-protein ratio, RNA contents per cell, and mean peptide elongation rate, for Salmonella typhimurium and Streptomyces coelicolor," said Lu.
According to Lu, this work advances the quantitative understanding of gene circuit behaviors, and facilitates the transformation of gene network design from trial-and-error construction to rational forward engineering.
By systematically illustrating key cellular processes and multilayered circuit-host interactions, it further sheds light on quantitative biology towards a better understanding of complex bacterial physiology.
The rabies vaccine is extremely effective at preventing this fatal disease in dogs, but new research, funded by Morris Animal Foundation, shows the vaccine may have a positive impact on overall canine health as well, and is associated with a decrease in death from all causes.
The unexpected finding could have implications for future design of rabies control programs as well as provide a model to study this same effect in humans.
Dr. Darryn Knobel, Associate Professor of Epidemiology and Population Health at Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine, recently published his research results in the journal Vaccine.
The study showed that rabies vaccination reduced the risk of death from any cause by 56 percent in dogs 0 to 3 months of age.
While all dogs had decreased mortality, the percentage decrease was highest in young dogs, with the effect diminishing over time.
Dr. Knobel's study area incorporated an impoverished region of South Africa, where infectious diseases, including rabies, are an ever-present threat to both humans and dogs.
The research team concluded that the decrease in mortality couldn't be explained by a reduction in deaths due to rabies alone.
"This led us to propose that rabies vaccine may have a non-specific protective effect in dogs, perhaps through boosting the immune system to provide enhanced defense against other, unrelated diseases," said Dr. Knobel.
"A similar phenomenon has been observed in children, although it remains to be substantiated through more definitive trials."
Rabies remains a global health threat with tens of thousands of human deaths every year, mostly in Asia and Africa.
Dogs are the main source of human rabies deaths, so rabies control programs are essential to both canine and human health.
Understanding the mechanisms responsible for the enhanced immunity could have broad implications not only for veterinary medicine but also for human medicine.
Dr. Knobel hopes to continue his studies in collaboration with veterinary immunologists and infectious disease specialists, to study this effect further in dogs.
"Morris Animal Foundation is proud to support the work of Dr. Knobel in this critically important area of animal and human health," said John Reddington, DVM, PhD, President and CEO of Morris Animal Foundation.
"This is a fatal disease shared by dogs and people, and the work we and Dr. Knobel have undertaken has the potential to save both human and canine lives by further exploring the findings of this study."
While great strides have been made in rabies prevention and treatment since 1983, the World Health Organization continues to include rabies on its neglected tropical disease roadmap.
As a zoonotic disease (meaning it spreads from animals to people), rabies requires close cross-sectional coordination at the national regional and global levels.
Raising awareness about rabies through World Rabies Day, Sept. 28, and other efforts is critical to successful disease management programs.
###

WHO, with its partners the Food and Agriculture Organization of United Nations (FAO), World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE), and the Global Alliance for Rabies Control, is developing an international action plan to reach zero human deaths from dog-transmitted rabies by 2030.
The plan covers policy, human and animal interventions, awareness raising and advocacy, capacity building, and the respective resources needed for elimination of the disease in countries still suffering from rabies.
Work such as Dr. Knobel's will have an impact on and inform the work of these organizations.
About Morris Animal Foundation

Established in 1948, Morris Animal Foundation is dedicated to improving and protecting the health of animals through scientific innovation, education and inspiration.
Our investment in research has yielded life-saving vaccines, new treatments for critical diseases, superior screening tests, and advanced diagnostic tools.
We respond to emerging animal health threats that endanger entire species, and make new discoveries in basic animal biology to support applied research.
With every study we fund -- more than 2,600 to date -- we strive to advance the science of veterinary medicine, honoring the founding principles of Dr. Mark L. Morris Sr., and benefitting animals worldwide.
Researchers have found that three common species of Vibrio bacteria in Chesapeake Bay could increase with changing climate conditions by the end of this century, resulting in significant economic and healthcare costs from illnesses caused by exposure to contaminated water and consumption of contaminated shellfish.
The study, the first to apply a new way of downscaling global climate models to the Chesapeake Bay, was conducted by National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) scientists and colleagues.
It appears in the American Geophysical Union journal GeoHealth.
Vibrio bacteria occur naturally in the Chesapeake Bay and in coastal and estuarine waters around the world.
About a dozen Vibrio species can cause human illness, known as vibriosis.
Two of the most common species causing human illness in the United States, Vibrio parahaemolyticus and Vibrio vulnificus, occur in the Chesapeake Bay.
Their abundance varies with water temperature, salinity and other environmental factors.
A third species, Vibrio cholerae, also occurs in Chesapeake Bay but is not associated with cholera epidemics, although like other Vibrio species it can sometimes cause illness in people who eat contaminated shellfish, such as oysters.
Researchers used four different global climate models and data from eight locations in and around the bay and its tributaries to project how warming temperatures and changing freshwater inputs might impact the three Vibrio bacteria in the bay and its oyster populations by the end of this century.
The findings showed substantial future increases in the occurrence, distribution, and length of the season for V. vulnificus and V. parahaemolyticus, and an increase in favorable habitat for V. cholerae, although this was confined to low salinity regions of the bay.
"Recent research from other parts of the world has suggested that warming conditions due to climate change have led to more favorable conditions for Vibrio-related disease outbreaks," said lead author Barbara Muhling, formerly at NOAA's Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory at Princeton University and currently at the Cooperative Institute for Marine Ecosystems and Climate (CIMEC) in California.
"There are relatively few studies like ours that use projections from IPCC-class climate models to examine the risk of future Vibrio species occurring and appearing in new areas, or the rates of human infection."
IPCC, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, is the international body that reviews and assesses the most recent scientific, technical, and socio-economic information produced worldwide relevant to the understanding of climate change.
CIMEC is a partnership of ocean, climate and ecosystem research between NOAA and several California universities.
"We used Vibrio, given its potential impact on the Chesapeake Bay, as the first case study for this new downscaling framework," said Vincent Saba, a NOAA Fisheries researcher who works with high resolution global climate models at NOAA's Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory in Princeton, NJ and is a co-author of the study.
"People are interested in knowing what could happen in their own backyard, so this was a great application of the downscaling framework we have developed.
Other species can be studied using this same method where estuary temperature, salinity, and river flow are important factors."
Laboratory experiments suggest that optimum temperatures for Vibrio species are between 37 and 39 degrees C, or 98.6 to 102.2 degrees F, much warmer than current conditions in the Chesapeake Bay.
All three Vibrio strains now occur more frequently and in higher abundances in warmer months of the year, when water temperatures are also warmer.
Each strain or species appears to have a distinct salinity range, meaning the Vibrios could potentially increase only when other environmental factors are or become favorable in a specific area in the bay.
"I was a bit surprised at how important salinity was for the projections," said Muhling, who works at CIMEC at the University of California, Santa Cruz.
"While warmer waters are generally more favorable for Vibrios, salinity can determine the likely locations of future hot-spots.
As a result, the projected increases in V. cholerae were much lower and more spatially restricted than for the other two Vibrio species we looked at."
Disease risk from Vibrios already exists in the Chesapeake Bay.
Environmental and resource managers are aware of it, as are many local residents and shellfish consumers.
Some measures designed to reduce the risk of Vibrio-related illness from harvested oysters are already in place.
For example, in warmer months, oysters must be refrigerated by a certain time of day after being harvested.
As temperatures continue to warm, these set times of day may need to be adjusted to ensure that oysters remain safe to eat.
The months of the year where these regulations are applied may also need to be extended.
"Our results show the need for models of climate impact on Vibrios in estuarine environments, "Muhling said.
"Economic costs associated with Vibrios in the Chesapeake Bay, such as the occurrence of illness or management actions to adapt to the changing conditions, may increase under climate change.
That has implications for recreational and commercial uses of this ecosystem."
Since many commercial and recreational fisheries species use estuaries during their life cycle, the downscaled climate framework used on Vibrio could be applied to them as well.
"Our next steps will be to look at the impact of changing climate on species like blue crabs, striped bass, black sea bass, or river herring and apply the framework to other estuarine areas in the Northeast, like Delaware Bay and Long Island Sound," Saba said.
"We'd also like to look at forecasting possibilities and how that could be used to inform fisheries management."
###

In addition to Barbara Muhling and Vincent Saba, other authors on this study are John Jacobs of the National Centers for Coastal Ocean Science of NOAA's National Ocean Service in Oxford, MD; Charles Stock of the NOAA Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory in Princeton, NJ; and Carlos Gaitan of Arable Labs Inc. in Princeton, NJ.
Two papers involving ovarian cancer research at the University of Notre Dame's Harper Cancer Research Institute (HCRI), one featuring new research and the other a review article, were published as cover stories in their respective journals.
M. Sharon Stack, the Anne F. Dunne and Elizabeth Riley Director of HCRI, along with postdoctoral researchers Jing Yang and Yuliya Klymenko, among others, have been studying why ovarian cancer cells uniquely spread throughout the peritoneal cavity.
Within that abdominal space, shed ovarian cancer cells bind together, forming lethal structures called aggregates.
Those aggregates float in the cavity until eventually sticking and penetrating more tissues.
This mode of metastasis, along with vague symptoms that cause diagnostic delays, makes ovarian cancer one of the most deadly cancers.
In their article published in The Journal of Biological Chemistry (JBC), Yang, Stack and colleagues studied a membrane proteinase, called MT1-MMP, which is an enzyme that begins the breakdown of connective tissue proteins.
MT1-MMP is generally not detected in normal ovarian tissue or even in benign ovarian tumors.
MT1-MMP includes a short cytoplasmic tail, or chain of 20 amino acids, that regulates activity on the cell's surface.
The tail contains three potential places where proteins are regulated, called phosphorylation sites.
Yang's and Stack's research demonstrated that phosphorylation may play a role in regulating the transition of ovarian cancer cells from the "floating" phase to the "sticking" phase in the peritoneal cavity.
"MT1 is a molecular clipper on the surface of cells, clipping the proteins out of the way just like we would clip away roots of a tree to allow more room for other plants," Stack said.
"For ovarian cancer cells, this makes them stick better and gives them room to thrive."
And becoming stickier means more metastatic success -- effectively spreading the cancer to new areas of the body.
The discovery is important because understanding how the different phosphorylation sites function could lead to drug discoveries that target and inhibit the process, Stack said.
The review paper published in Cancers in August is a 32-page overview by Klymenko, Stack and Oleg Kim, an adjunct research professor in the Department of Applied Computational Mathematics and Statistics, that summarizes current research into ovarian cancer metastasis and chemoresistance.
The paper also outlines computational models that could help understand these processes.
Stack said she and her team were honored to have their work published on the covers of two journals this summer -- the third time her work has been featured on a cover and the first time to have two articles on covers in one month.
Another study evaluating the effect of parity (how many times a female has delivered babies) on metastasis has been accepted in Cancer Letters.
A study about aging on metastasis has been submitted and is undergoing review.
"The research we're doing at Harper is leading us closer to answering questions unique to ovarian cancer," Stack said.
"This will eventually pave the way for more and better treatment options, with the goal of increasing the survival rate for women with ovarian cancer."
###

The JBC study is the third in this summer's list of published research into ovarian cancer metastasis that originated at HCRI.
The other studies were published in Neoplasia and Oncogene.
The most recent study was funded through the National Institutes of Health and through the Leo and Anne Albert Charitable Trust.
A new study finds that genetic testing can help determine the safest dose of the blood thinner warfarin, with fewer side effects, in patients undergoing joint replacement surgery.
Warfarin, commonly known as Coumadin, is frequently used to prevent a life-threatening blood clot.
It is often prescribed to people having hip or knee replacement surgery, as well as to individuals with certain heart conditions that leave them vulnerable to a stroke.
Despite its decades-long use, determining the correct dose can be difficult.
The drug affects people differently, and genetics come into play.
Too much warfarin can cause internal bleeding, while an inadequate dose fails to prevent blood clots.
Over the last 10 years, warfarin has led to more medication-related emergency room visits among older adults than any other drug.
The new warfarin study, published in the Journal of the American Medical Association on September 26, found that customizing the blood thinner to a patient's genetic profile helps determine the optimal dose, reducing the risk of major bleeding, blood clots and a warfarin overdose.
"Warfarin is very effective in preventing blood clots, but it's very difficult to regulate," explains Anne R. Bass, MD, a rheumatologist at Hospital for Special Surgery (HSS) in New York City and study co-author.
"About half of the population, because of genetic variants, is very sensitive to warfarin or has a very unpredictable or delayed response to the drug.
This is the first study to show that adjusting the dose based on these genetic variants makes warfarin safer for patients."
The multicenter clinical trial, known as GIFT (The Genetic Informatics Trial of Warfarin to Prevent Deep Venous Thrombosis) was funded by the National Institutes of Health.
Brian F. Gage, MD, a professor of Medicine at Washington University School of Medicine, served as principal investigator.
Hospital for Special Surgery had the highest number of study participants -- almost 1,000 joint replacement patients.
Investigators collected data on a total of 1,600 individuals age 65 and older undergoing hip or knee replacement surgery.
Patients were randomly assigned to one of two groups.
One group received warfarin dosing based on clinical factors known to affect warfarin dose such as age, height and weight, gender, race, and other medications; the second group's dose was based on these factors plus genetic variants.
The study zeroed in on genetic variants in three genes, and this genetic information helped guide warfarin dosing during the first 11 days of treatment.
Patients were monitored for bleeding, blood clots and warfarin overdose.
Fifteen percent of the patients who were given warfarin in the traditional manner experienced at least one adverse effect, compared to only 11% patients whose warfarin dosing was guided by genetic testing, a statistically significant difference.
"This study is a poster child for personalized or precision medicine; that is, using genetics to target treatment to an individual," Dr. Bass says.
"The study shows that using genetic information increases the safety of this medication."
Dr. Bass adds that although the study involved joint replacement patients, the findings have implications for other populations taking warfarin.
"This was really a study addressing warfarin management and warfarin safety, so I think you can extrapolate the results to other patients taking this blood thinner, such as those with atrial fibrillation," she notes.
"A patient's genetic information is most valuable when you're initiating warfarin treatment."
Researchers noted that although genetic testing is more expensive than dosing based on clinical factors alone, the cost is coming down.
In the GIFT trial, genetic testing cost less than $200 per person.
###

About Hospital for Special Surgery
A major issue facing ITER, the international tokamak under construction in France that will be the first magnetic fusion device to produce net energy, is whether the crucial divertor plates that will exhaust waste heat from the device can withstand the high heat flux, or load, that will strike them.
Alarming projections extrapolated from existing tokamaks suggest that the heat flux could be so narrow and concentrated as to damage the tungsten divertor plates in the seven-story, 23,000 ton tokamak and require frequent and costly repairs.
This flux could be comparable to the heat load experienced by spacecraft re-entering Earth's atmosphere.
New findings of an international team led by physicist C.S.
Chang of the U.S. Department of Energy's (DOE) Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory (PPPL) paint a more positive picture.
Results of the collaboration, which has spent two years simulating the heat flux, indicate that the width could be well within the capacity of the divertor plates to tolerate.
Good news for ITER

"This could be very good news for ITER," Chang said of the findings, published in August in the journal Nuclear Fusion.
"This indicates that ITER can produce 10 times more power than it consumes, as planned, without damaging the divertor plates prematurely."
At ITER, spokesperson Laban Coblentz, said the simulations were of great interest and highly relevant to the ITER project.
He said ITER would be keen to see experimental benchmarking, performed for example by the Joint European Torus (JET) at the Culham Centre for Fusion Energy in the United Kingdom, to strengthen confidence in the simulation results.
Chang's team used the highly sophisticated XGC1 plasma turbulence computer simulation code developed at PPPL to create the new estimate.
The simulation projected a width of 6 millimeters for the heat flux in ITER when measured in a standardized way among tokamaks, far greater than the less-than 1 millimeter width projected through use of experimental data.
Deriving projections of narrow width from experimental data were researchers at major worldwide facilities.
In the United States, these tokamaks were the National Spherical Torus Experiment before its upgrade at PPPL; the Alcator C-Mod facility at MIT, which ceased operations at the end of 2016; and the DIII-D National Fusion Facility that General Atomics operates for the DOE in San Diego.
Widely different conditions

The discrepancy between the experimental projections and simulation predictions, said Chang, stems from the fact that conditions inside ITER will be too different from those in existing tokamaks for the empirical predictions to be valid.
Key differences include the behavior of plasma particles within today's machines compared with the expected behavior of particles in ITER.
For example, while ions contribute significantly to the heat width in the three U.S. machines, turbulent electrons will play a greater role in ITER, rendering extrapolations unreliable.
Chang's team used basic physics principles, rather than empirical projections based on the data from existing machines, to derive the simulated wider prediction.
The team first tested whether the code could predict the heat flux width produced in experiments on the U.S. tokamaks, and found the predictions to be valid.
Researchers then used the code to project the width of the heat flux in an estimated model of ITER edge plasma.
The simulation predicted the greater heat-flux width that will be sustainable within the current ITER design.
Supercomputers enabled simulation

Supercomputers made this simulation possible.
Validating the code on the existing tokamaks and producing the findings took some 300 million core hours on Titan and Cori, two of the most powerful U.S. supercomputers, housed at the DOE's Oak Ridge Leadership Computing Facility and the National Energy Research Scientific Computing Center, respectively.
A core hour is one processor, or core, running for one hour.
###

Researchers from eight U.S. and European institutions collaborated on this research.
In addition to PPPL, the institutions included ITER, the Culham Centre for Fusion Energy, the Institute of Atomic and Subatomic Physics at the Technical University of Vienna, General Atomics, MIT, Oak Ridge National Laboratory and Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.
Support for this work comes from the DOE Office of Science Offices of Fusion Energy Sciences and Office of Advanced Scientific Computing Research.
PPPL, on Princeton University's Forrestal Campus in Plainsboro, N.J., is devoted to creating new knowledge about the physics of plasmas -- ultra-hot, charged gases -- and to developing practical solutions for the creation of fusion energy.
The Laboratory is managed by the University for the U.S. Department of Energy's Office of Science, which is the largest single supporter of basic research in the physical sciences in the United States, and is working to address some of the most pressing challenges of our time.
For more information, please visit science.energy.gov.
GALVESTON, Texas - Scientists from The University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston have gained new insight into how the Ebola virus uses the body's natural defenses to speed the rate of infection and unleash its lethal disease, according to a new report in mBio.
The study was conducted in collaboration with the University of Washington and The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.
When someone is infected with the Ebola virus, part of the reason that the resulting disease is so severe is because the virus causes parts of the immune system to malfunction.
T-cells, which are a specialized type of white blood cells that seek and destroy virus-infected cells, are particularly vulnerable to the Ebola virus.
"In this study, we demonstrated the central role of a T-cell protein called Tim-1 in the development of Ebola virus disease," said senior author Alexander Bukreyev, a UTMB virologist in the departments of pathology and microbiology and immunology.
"Mice that were genetically engineered without Tim-1 became less ill when infected with Ebola virus and only one died, whereas all of the unmodified mice succumbed."
Bukreyev noted that the mice without Tim-1 had only slightly lower levels of the virus in their bodies compared with unmodified mice, suggesting that the Ebola virus needs the Tim-1 cells to spread infection.
The Tim-1 deficient mice's immune system used a different virus-fighting strategy that protected them.
A series of biological analyses of the mice with Tim-1 and immune cells isolated from human donors showed that Ebola virus directly binds to T-cells through Tim-1 protein binding and causes massive inflammation that thwarts the immune system.
The severity of inflammatory immune reaction is consistently linked with the intensity of the disease and risk of death from Ebola.
"Understanding how the invading Ebola virus impacts the host's immune system is a very important step in developing targeted therapies for Ebola virus disease," said Bukreyev.
"The findings of this study indicate that drugs that block Tim-1 could be a potential new treatment for people with Ebola."
"If we can find a way to limit the inflammatory response known as the 'cytokine storm' during Ebola infection, we can potentially improve disease outcome" said Patrick Younan, the lead author of the paper.
"Controlling and successfully balancing the immune response following Ebola virus infection is greatly important for reducing symptoms and fatal outcomes," said Mathieu Iampietro, the co-lead author of the paper.
###

Other study authors include UTMB's Palaniappan Ramanathan, Rodrigo Santos, Ndongala Michel Lubaki; Andrew Nishida, Mukta Dutta and Michael Katze from the University of Washington as well as Richard Koup from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.
MAYWOOD, IL - Loyola Medicine physicians have proposed a simple new system to improve the reporting of robotic surgeries performed by surgeons in training.
The system, called RoboLog, was successfully piloted on 310 urologic robotic surgeries, according to a study published in the Journal of Surgical Education by first author Kristin Baldea, MD, senior author Gopal Gupta, MD, and colleagues.
Robotic-assisted surgery is gaining popularity among urologists and now is the most common technique performed for prostate cancer surgery.
The surgeon sits at a console with a 3-D monitor and two joysticks.
Movements by the surgeon's hand or wrist are translated into precise movements of the surgical instruments.
Following medical school, surgeons undergo training while serving as residents, and some surgeons undergo additional training as fellows.
However, there is no standardized training in robotic surgery for residents and fellows and few guidelines for determining competency.
The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education's logging system for robotic surgeries is the same as that used for other types of surgery: A resident either performed the surgery or acted as an assistant.
But this system does not accurately reflect a trainee's actual robotic experience because there is considerable variation in how much a resident participates on the console.
For example, a resident who performs only one part of a robotic prostate cancer surgery - removing the lymph nodes - will get the same credit as a resident who performs the surgery from start to finish.
RoboLog is a web-based program that provides much more detailed information about a resident's involvement in robotic surgeries.
The system includes 11 common urologic robotic procedures.
For each surgery recorded, there's a drop-down menu listing the steps of the surgery.
The resident checks each step that he or she performed, and how many minutes it took to perform each of the key steps.
No patient identifying information is included.
Residents who have little experience in certain surgical steps can be identified early and this deficit can be addressed.
The median time for a resident to log a case was 59 seconds and the median time for a supervising surgeon to review it was 53.5 seconds.
Two other centers have begun using RoboLog and Loyola plans to make the system available to any program that wishes to use it.
"Widespread usage of a logging system with more insight into step-specific involvement is needed," researchers concluded.
"RoboLog fills this need and can be used to track robotic training progress and aid in development of a standardized curriculum."
###

The study is titled, "Design and implementation of a robotic surgery training experience logging system."
In addition to Drs.
Baldea and Gupta, other co-authors are Ryan Thorwarth, Petar Bajic, MD, and Marcus Quek, MD.
Study is first to find cell volume can influence the future role of stem cells, regardless of environment

BUFFALO, N.Y. - Adding or removing water from a stem cell can change the destiny of the cell, researchers have discovered in a new study published yesterday in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America (PNAS).
The research found that altering the volume of a cell changed its internal dynamics, including the rigidness of the matrix lining the outer surface.
In stem cells, removing water condenses the cell, influencing the stem cells to become stiff pre-bone cells, while adding water causes the cells to swell, forming soft pre-fat cells.
Researchers have long understood that stem cells are influenced by the cells around them, picking up cues on what their function should be based on the stiffness of the matrices of neighboring cells.
The results, however, confirm that nature plays as much of a role as nurture in stem cell behavior and development.
"The findings from this study add a fascinating new tool to our understanding and utilization of stem cell biology for regenerative medicine," says Praveen Arany, DDS, PhD, co-author and assistant professor in the Department of Oral Biology in the University at Buffalo School of Dental Medicine.
The study was led by Ming Guo, PhD, d'Arbeloff Assistant Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; and David Weitz, PhD, Mallinckrodt Professor of Physics and of Applied Physics in the John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences at Harvard University.
"For the first time, we're beginning to understand the importance of cell volume and cellular water content in the mechanical properties and physiological functions of cells," says Guo, who began the research as a graduate student in Weitz's lab at Harvard.
The Line Between Bone and Fat

The research originally sought to understand the effects of volume on a cell's characteristics and functions.
Cell volume is highly regulated and changes frequently over the course of a cell's life, increasing as the cell grows and decreasing when it divides.
These changes in volume are a result of variations in the amount of protein, DNA and other materials within the cell, though they mostly remain constant.
But cells can also experience rapid and extreme changes in size and density through the absorption or release of water, spreading or shrinking in as little as 20 minutes.
By increasing or decreasing the volume of cells by 20 percent, the investigators found that the cells experienced several internal changes, including in gene expression and stiffness.
Knowing the role cell stiffness plays in the development of stem cells, the researchers began to wonder if cell volume could affect their fate as well.
To test the premise, investigators placed stem cells at their normal volume in a hardened hydrogel substrate to simulate the rigidness of bone cells.
After one week, a large portion of the stem cells developed into pre-bone cells.
The experiment was repeated with a softened hydrogel substrate.
In the softer environment, there was a significant decrease in the number of stem cells that became pre-bone cells.
However, when water was removed from the cells to decrease their volume by 20 percent, the number of stem cells that became pre-bone cells increased, despite being in the softer substrate.
A similar experiment was conducted using glass.
Researchers placed stem cells on glass to simulate a stiffer environment and found that few of the cells developed into pre-fat cells.
It was not until the volume of the stem cells was increased by 20 percent that a spike in the formation of fat cells was found.
The investigators discovered that changing the volume of the cells caused them to behave similarly to as if they were under environmental pressures.
"The surprising thing about these experiments is the observation that volume seems to be related to so much about the cell.
It seems to dictate the cell stiffness as well as the cell fate," says Weitz, also a core faculty member of the Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering and director of the Materials Research Science and Engineering Center at Harvard.
"These observations may also have implications in external means of monitoring cell fate, which may be important for future biotech applications."
Future studies are needed to examine the effects of varied changes in volume, as well as if cell volume or external cues are the dominating factor in the fate of stem cells.
The Future of Regenerative Medicine

Stem cells sit at the forefront of regenerative medicine, providing researchers and clinicians with the potential to repair or replace damaged tissue and organs.
With the ability to develop into any type of specialized cell - from a muscle cell to a red blood or brain cell - stem cells hold the potential to treat various diseases and conditions, from heart disease to tooth loss.
Bone marrow transplantation, one form of stem cell therapy, is already in widespread use.
Stem cells may also aid in drug development and the understanding of how cancer and birth defects occur.
Learning what causes differentiation among these cells will help researchers generate methods that influence their behavior and, ultimately, develop new therapies.
Aside from physical cues such as cell stiffness or volume, stem cell differentiation can be influenced by a number of biological factors, pharmaceutical drugs or biophysical agents, such as light, ultrasound and radio frequencies.
###

Other investigators on the study include Enhua Zhou, PhD, investigator at the Novartis Institutes of BioMedical Research; Dylan Burnette, PhD, assistant professor at Vanderbilt University; Mikkel Jensen, PhD, assistant professor at California State University, Sacramento; Adrian Pegoraro, PhD, research associate at the University of Ottawa; Karen Kasza, PhD, Clare Boothe Luce Assistant Professor at Columbia University; Angelo Mao, PhD, postdoctoral fellow at Harvard University; Yulong Han, PhD, research fellow at Harvard University; Jeffrey Moore, PhD, associate professor at University of Massachusetts at Lowell; Frederick Mackintosh, PhD, professor at Rice University; Jeffrey Fredberg, PhD, professor at Harvard University; David Mooney, PhD, Robert P. Pinkas Family Professor of Bioengineering at Harvard University; and Jennifer Lippincott-Schwartz, PhD, group leader at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute.
The overuse of antibiotics has left some doctors questioning whether to give such drugs to children diagnosed with uncomplicated staph infections.
Such infections often occur on the skin and look like a pus-filled bug bite.
Now, research led by Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis indicates that prescribing antibiotics -- in addition to lancing and draining staph-infected areas -- reduces the risk of recurrent infections.
The study, conducted with researchers at Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, is published online in the journal Clinical Infectious Diseases.
"There have been conflicting data about the benefit to antibiotics in minor staph infections," said the study's senior author, Stephanie A. Fritz, MD, a Washington University associate professor of pediatrics in the Division of Infectious Diseases.
"It is definitely important to surgically remove pus from the infection site, but also giving antibiotics means that the child will be less likely to see a doctor again in several months for another staph infection."
In the study, the researchers evaluated 383 children -- with a median age of 3 years old -- whose infections with the bacteria Staphylococcus aureus (staph) required incision and drainage.
The patients also had colonization of staph in their nostrils or on their skin.
The children were evaluated for the bacteria and reinfection several times over a year; of these patients, 355 (93 percent) received antibiotics coupled with incision and drainage treatment.
A month after initial infection, bacterial swab tests found that half of the children (178) who had received antibiotics had no signs of staph living on their skin or in their nostrils, reducing the risk of recurring infection.
However, the bacteria remained on the skin of about three-fourths of the children (26) who did not receive antibiotics.
Additionally, children who remained colonized with staph a month after initial infection were about twice as likely to experience a recurrent infection than those who did not have staph on their skin.
That's 101 children (60 percent) compared with 54 children (30 percent).
Staph generally live harmlessly on the skin in about one-third of the human population, Fritz said.
However, staph infections have become a worsening health problem, affecting not only those with weakened immune systems but otherwise healthy children and adults.
At St. Louis Children's Hospital, where Fritz treats patients, about 50 children are hospitalized each year with staph infections.
Overall, about 800 children admitted to the hospital's emergency department each year have staph infections; most are treated and discharged.
"In recent years, studies have demonstrated that staph infections are prominent in both hospitals and in the community," Fritz said.
"For example, we have seen a dramatic increase in community-associated infections since 2000."
Staph may become life-threatening when it enters the bloodstream, bones or organs through skin-to-skin contact or by touching a contaminated object.
When an infection turns serious, health-care workers typically give patients intravenous antibiotics.
However, some health-care workers have hesitated prescribing antibiotics for children with minor staph infections because of increasing antibiotic resistance.
The most common such strain is known as methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, or MRSA, which may cause pneumonia, severe organ damage and death.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports that 11,000 adults and children die annually of MRSA infections.
Although it might seem counterintuitive, prescribing antibiotics for minor staph infections helps to reduce antibiotic resistance, said the study's first author, Patrick Hogan, a clinical research specialist at the School of Medicine.
"Using antibiotics judiciously to treat staph infections eliminates staph colonization and prevents more infection from occurring in the future," he said.
"This reduces the overall burden of the staph germ on the environment and people, which results in less recurrence and, therefore, less antibiotic use."
The study primarily evaluated the antibiotics clindamycin and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX).
Of the two drugs, clindamycin was the most effective at eliminating staph colonization and preventing recurrent infection.
Why clindamycin was superior to other antibiotics is unknown and warrants further study, Hogan said.
Certain marine species will fare much worse than others as they become more vulnerable to the effects of climate change, a new UBC study has found.
After analyzing the biological characteristics of 1,074 marine fish and shellfish, the study identified 294 species that are most at-risk due to climate change by 2050.
Species most at-risk include the Eastern Australian salmon, yellowbar angelfish, toli shad, sohal surgeonfish and spotted grouper.
"We hope that this study will highlight the marine species that are most in need of management and conservation actions under climate change," said William Cheung, associate professor in the Institute for the Oceans and Fisheries and director of science for the Nippon Foundation - UBC Nereus Program.
As part of the study, UBC researchers created a database that examines the long-term vulnerability of marine species that are important to fisheries around the world.
The database was developed with an approach that uses "fuzzy logic" to combine information about the biological sensitivity of these species to environmental changes as well as their projected exposure to changes in the ocean including temperature and oxygen and acidity levels.
"How susceptible are Atlantic cod to climate change compared to skipjack tuna?
How about smaller fishes such as anchovy and pilchard?"
asked Cheung.
"We know that some characteristics of the species make them more sensitive and less resilient to climate change."
The factors that restrict whether fish or shellfish can adapt to climate change include their preferred temperature range, restrictions on their geographic range, how long it takes to reproduce, and specific habitat requirements such as needing kelp or coral reef to survive.
"Eastern Australian salmon is highly vulnerable because their distribution is limited to shallow coastal and estuarine waters in southern Australia and New Zealand," said Miranda Jones, the study's lead author, who was a postdoctoral fellow in the Institute for the Oceans and Fisheries when the study was underway.
"The species lives in habitats that are exposed to large changes in ocean conditions and have limited scope to avoid these changes."
In Canada, sockeye salmon, along with the alewife, Pacific bonito, and sharks such as the porbeagle and thresher, are identified as at risk to climate change impacts.
In contrast, some species such as the Pacific sanddab, blue crab and Pacific sandlance have less vulnerable biological characteristics and live in areas that are relatively less affected by climate change.
The study "Using fuzzy logic to determine the vulnerability of marine species to climate change" was published today in Global Change Biology: http://onlinelibrary.
wiley.
com/ doi/ 10.
1111/ gcb.
13869/ full

###

This research was funded by the Nippon Foundation - UBC Nereus Program and the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) of Canada.
Background

The researchers used "fuzzy logic" to develop this database.
Fuzzy logic allows reasoning and drawing conclusions based on the best available expert and scientific knowledge, even with incomplete or uncertain information.
Such fuzzy logic approaches have been applied to study marine biodiversity conservation and fisheries management.
About the Nippon Foundation-UBC Nereus Program

The Nereus Program, a collaboration between the Nippon Foundation and the Institute for the Oceans and Fisheries at the University of British Columbia, has engaged in innovative, interdisciplinary ocean research since its inception in 2011.
The program is currently a global partnership of twenty leading marine science institutes with the aim of undertaking research that advances our comprehensive understandings of the global ocean systems across the natural and social sciences, from oceanography and marine ecology to fisheries economics and impacts on coastal communities.
Visit nereusprogram.org for more information.
DES PLAINES, IL--Gender, racial, and ethnic disparities, with regard to academic rank and compensation, continue to exist among academic emergency medicine physicians in spite of a move by leading organizations of emergency medicine to prioritize increasing diversity.
That is the primary finding of a study to be published in the October 2017 issue of Academic Emergency Medicine (AEM), a journal of the Society for Academic Emergency Medicine (SAEM).
The lead author of the study is Tracy E. Madsen, MD, ScM, an assistant professor of emergency medicine in the Division of Sex and Gender in Emergency Medicine within the Department of Emergency Medicine, Alpert Medical School of Brown University.
The study by Madsen, et al, found that women earned less than men regardless of rank, clinical hours, or training and that failure to advance or to receive promotion to leadership roles may be a be a factor in why women leave careers in academic medicine.
The study proposes that future research is needed to delineate the issues of retention and advancement.
Additionally, the study found that underrepresented minorities (URM) comprise a small proportion of the academic medicine workforce and are less likely to hold senior positions, and are less likely to be promoted at all levels, regardless of gender, tenure status, degree, or NIH award status.
The study proposes that further research is needed to identify additional strategies to eliminate disparities and match the mission of ensuring inclusion, diversity, and equality in academic emergency medicine.
"This study again highlights the necessity for bold interventions and solutions.
Expecting changes using the same strategies will only ensure the existing inequities," said Gail D'Onofrio, MD, professor and chair in the department of emergency medicine at Yale University School of Medicine.
###

The Society for Academic Emergency Medicine (SAEM) is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization dedicated to the improvement of care of the acutely ill and injured patient by leading the advancement of academic emergency medicine through education and research, advocacy, and professional development.
To learn more, visit saem.org.
Computer scientists at the University of Nottingham and Kingston University have solved a complex problem that has, until now, defeated experts in vision and graphics research.
They have developed technology capable of producing 3D facial reconstruction from a single 2D image - the 3D selfie.
Their new web app allows people to upload a single colour image and receive, in a few seconds, a 3D model showing the shape of their face.
People are queuing up to try it and so far, more than 400,000 users have had a go.
You can do it yourself by taking a selfie and uploading it to their website.
The research - 'Large Pose 3D Face Reconstruction from a Single Image via Direct Volumetric CNN Regression' - was led by PhD student Aaron Jackson and carried out with fellow PhD student Adrian Bulat both based in the Computer Vision Laboratory in the School of Computer Science.
Both students are supervised by Georgios (Yorgos) Tzimiropoulos, Assistant Professor in the School of Computer Science.
The work was done in collaboration with Dr Vasileios Argyriou from the School of Computer Science and Mathematics at Kingston University.
The results will be presented at the International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) 2017 in Venice next month.
Technology at a very early stage

The technique is far from perfect but this is the breakthrough computer scientists have been looking for.
It has been developed using a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) - an area of artificial intelligence (AI) which uses machine learning to give computers the ability to learn without being explicitly programmed.
The research team, supervised by Dr Yorgos Tzimiropoulos, trained a CNN on a huge dataset of 2D pictures and 3D facial models.
With all this information their CNN is able to reconstruct 3D facial geometry from a single 2D image.
It can also take a good guess at the non-visible parts of the face.
Simple idea complex problem

Dr Tzimiropoulos said: "The main novelty is in the simplicity of our approach which bypasses the complex pipelines typically used by other techniques.
We instead came up with the idea of training a big neural network on 80,000 faces to directly learn to output the 3D facial geometry from a single 2D image."
This is a problem of extraordinary difficulty.
Current systems require multiple facial images and face several challenges, such as dense correspondences across large facial poses, expressions and non-uniform illumination.
Aaron Jackson said: "Our CNN uses just a single 2D facial image, and works for arbitrary facial poses (e.g.
front or profile images) and facial expressions (e.g.
smiling)."
Adrian Bulat said "The method can be used to reconstruct the whole 3D facial geometry including the non-visible parts of the face."
Their technique demonstrates some of the advances possible through deep learning - a form of machine learning that uses artificial neural networks to mimic the way the brain makes connections between pieces of information.
Dr Vasileios Argyriou, from Kingston University's Faculty of Science, Engineering and Computing, said: "What's really impressive about this technique is how it has made the process of creating a 3D facial model so simple."
What could the applications be?
Aside from the more standard applications, such as face and emotion recognition, this technology could be used to personalise computer games, improve augmented reality, and let people try on online accessories such as glasses.
It could also have medical applications - such as simulating the results of plastic surgery or helping to understand medical conditions such as autism and depression.
Aaron's PhD is funded by the University of Nottingham.
His research is focused on deep learning applied to the human face.
This includes 3D reconstruction and segmentation applied to the human face and body.
Adrian Bulat is a PhD student in the Computer Vision Lab.
His main research interests are in the area of face analysis, human pose estimation and neural network quantization/binarization.
After a single dose, the developing Zika vaccine completely prevents against infection, transmission from pregnant mother to developing fetus.
The vaccine also prevents damage to the male reproductive system.
GALVESTON, Texas - For the first time, a collaborative team led by The University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston has shown that a potential Zika vaccine quickly can protect fetuses against infection as well as protect males against testicular infection and injury.
It also prevents a lowered sperm count after one vaccination.
The findings are currently available in Nature Communications.
Although Zika infection typically results in mild or symptom-free infections in healthy individuals, infected pregnant women without symptoms may still give birth to a baby with birth defects like microcephaly.
Similarly, infected men without noticeable signs of illness may still incur testicular injury and lowered sperm count.
The Zika virus could infect the male reproductive system for several months, posing risk for sexual transmission.
"This study showed, for the first time, that a single-dose vaccine candidate could prevent Zika infection in non-human primates, block mother-to-fetus transmission, and stop male testis infection in mice," said UTMB's Pei-Yong Shi, senior author and the I.H.
Kempner professor at the department of biochemistry and molecular biology.
"Besides quickly mounting a protective immune response, this live-attenuated vaccine exhibited an excellent safety profile in both mouse and non-human primate models.
Taken together, the results suggest that this vaccine merits further development in humans."
"Having a Zika vaccine that can protect male reproductive systems, pregnant women and their unborn babies would improve public health efforts to avoid birth defects and other effects of the disease in regions where Zika is circulating," said Pedro Vasconcelos, director of Evandro Chagas Institute in Brazil and co-developer of this vaccine.
"It's important to note that a single-dose vaccine is practically important; vaccines that require booster shots are impractically challenging for people living in developing regions where access to medical facilities may be limited."
###

Other authors include UTMB's Chao Shan, Antonio Muruato, Bruno Nunes, Daniele Medeiros, Xuping Xie, Jannyce Nunes, Alan Barrett, Scott Weaver and Shannan Rossi; Justin Richner, Brett Jagger and Michael Diamond from Washington University School of Medicine; Kaitlyn Morabito, Wing-Pui Kong, Barney Graham and Theodore Pierson from the National Institutes of Health as well as Pedro Vasconcelos from Evandro Chagas Institute, Ministry of Health, Par State University, Brazil.
The National Institutes of Health, UTMB, The University of Texas System, The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Pan American Health Organization and the Kleberg Foundation, supported this work.
NASA's Aqua satellite provided an infrared look at Hurricane Maria's cloud top temperatures and found the coldest cloud tops and strongest storms were facing east of the center and away from the U.S.
However, Maria is a large hurricane.
On Sept. 26, the National Hurricane Center reported that hurricane-force winds extend outward up to 105 miles (165 km) from the center and tropical-storm-force winds extend outward up to 240 miles (390 km).
The Atmospheric Infrared Sounder or AIRS instrument aboard NASA's Aqua satellite passed over Hurricane Maria on Sept. 25 at 2:11 p.m. EDT (1811 UTC) and analyzed the storm in infrared light.
Infrared light provides scientists with temperature data and that's important when trying to understand how strong storms can be.
The higher the cloud tops, the colder and the stronger they are.
So infrared light as that gathered by the AIRS instrument can identify the strongest sides of a tropical cyclone.
The AIRS image clearly showed the bulk of strong storms in Maria's northeastern quadrant as well as in the storms surrounding the eye.
Cloud top temperatures in thunderstorms around the eyewall as cold as minus 63 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 53 degrees Celsius).
Storms with cloud top temperatures that cold have the capability to produce heavy rainfall.
On Sept. 27, the National Hurricane Center noted "the satellite presentation of Maria has continued to slowly degrade over the past 24 hours, as deep convection is now confined to the southeastern portion of the circulation."
AIRS data also showed cooler sea surface temperatures, which are expected to help weaken Maria.
At the same time as the AIRS image, another instrument aboard Aqua called MODIS, or Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer took a visible light image of Maria.
In the visible image, Maria's eye was covered by high clouds.
Warnings in Effect on September 26, 2017

The National Hurricane Center (NHC) posted a Storm Surge Warning for Ocracoke Inlet to Cape Hatteras, North Carolina.
A Tropical Storm Warning is in effect for Bogue Inlet to the North Carolina/Virginia border, and for the Albemarle and Pamlico Sounds.
A Storm Surge Watch is in effect for Cape Lookout to west of Ocracoke Inlet, and north of Cape Hatteras to Duck, North Carolina.
At 11 a.m. EDT on Sept. 26, the National Hurricane Center reported that tropical-storm-force winds nearing North Carolina's Outer Banks.
Storm Surge and Tropical Storm Warnings were in place from North Carolina to Virginia.
Status of Hurricane Maria

At 11 a.m. EDT (1500 UTC), the center of Hurricane Maria was located near 33.6 degrees north latitude and 73.1 degrees west longitude.
That's about 175 miles (285 km) southeast of Cape Hatteras, North Carolina.
The latest minimum central pressure estimated from reconnaissance aircraft data is 971 millibars.
Maria was moving toward the north near 7 mph (11 kph) and NHC said this general motion with some decrease in forward speed is expected, followed by a turn toward the north-northeast on Wednesday, Sept. 27.
On the forecast track, the center of Maria will pass east of the coast of North Carolina during the next couple of days.
Maximum sustained winds are near 75 mph (120 kph) with higher gusts.
Gradual weakening is forecast during the next couple of days, and Maria is forecast to become a tropical storm within the next day or so.
NHC Key Messages About Maria

The National Hurricane Center shared Key Messages about this large hurricane:

1 Maria is forecast to continue moving northward, paralleling the U.S. east coast for the next 36 hours, and will likely bring some direct impacts to portions of the North Carolina coast through Wednesday where a tropical storm warning is in effect.
Storm surge flooding, especially along the sound side of the North Carolina Outer Banks, is expected, and a storm surge warning and watch are in effect for portions of eastern North Carolina.
Swells generated by Maria are affecting much of the east coast of the United States.
These swells are also affecting Bermuda, the Turks and Caicos Islands, and the Bahamas.
These swells are likely to cause life-threatening surf and rip current conditions.
For forecast updates on Hurricane Maria, visit: http://www.
gov

More information about AIRS can be found at airs.jpl.nasa.gov

###
Society of Surgical Oncology, National Institutes of Health, A Sister's Hope Foundation, Saslow Family

ANN ARBOR, Michigan -- In the hunt for novel treatments against an aggressive form of breast cancer, researchers combined a new protein inhibitor with a chemotherapy drug to create a powerful combination that resulted in cancer cell death.
Triple-negative breast cancer is a subtype that does not express hormone receptor or HER2.
It occurs in approximately 15 percent of patients with breast cancer.
This subtype tends to be more aggressive and targeted therapeutic treatment options are lacking.
In this work, the drugs studied were each tested separately in triple-negative breast cancer cell lines and in mice with the disease.
The researchers then implemented the treatments in combination.
The combination produced a synergistic effect that was more effective than either drug alone.
The cancer cells treated with the drug combination were less likely to multiply or spread in cell culture and were less viable in an animal model.
Preliminary data had shown that inhibiting proteins called cyclin dependent kinases, or CDKs, might be effective against triple negative breast cancer.
In this study, researchers tested a pharmaceutical grade CDK inhibitor called CYC065.
Additionally, researchers used the chemotherapy drug eribulin, which had shown promise in prior clinical trials for the treatment of triple-negative breast cancer.
"In this pre-clinical study, we showed that the combination of CYC065 and eribulin had a synergistic effect against the growth and progression of triple-negative breast cancer.
New therapeutic targets and treatment strategies are crucial to improve outcomes for women with this aggressive breast cancer subtype," says study author Jacqueline S. Jeruss, M.D., Ph.D., director of the Breast Care Center at the University of Michigan Comprehensive Cancer Center.
From the early days of her career, Jeruss was interested in how signaling pathway alterations could impact the development of breast cancer.
What makes a mammary cell change to allow for lactation but then regress when that function is no longer needed?
What orchestrates cell regulation to allow for such carefully mediated physiologic changes?
And what processes occur over time that cause the cellular deregulation leading to cancer development in certain patients, but not in others?
Her work led her to the implementation of CDK inhibitors for the treatment of triple negative breast cancer.
She found that these drugs could help to block the harmful impact of overexpression of cancer promoting cyclin E/CDKs, proteins that were inhibiting the tumor suppressant action of the TGF-beta/SMAD3 pathway.
CDK inhibitors can block the impact of cyclin E/CDK action, helping to restore the beneficial effects of the TGF-beta/SMAD3 pathway, and thus facilitating cancer cell death.
In the current study, published in Oncotarget, the combination treatment of the CDK inhibitor CYC065 with the chemotherapy eribulin, resulted in less viable triple negative breast cancer cells, smaller tumor colonies, decreased cell migration, and small tumor size in an animal model.
Researchers also identified specific transcription factors that were impacted by CYC065.
These processes likely work together to promote cancer cell death.
"We have begun to identify a network of vulnerable and targetable signaling components within the triple negative cancer cells that can be exploited with CDK inhibitor and chemotherapy treatment to promote triple negative breast cancer cell death," Jeruss says.
The research was done with triple negative breast cancer cells in culture and in an animal model.
The next step is for researchers to develop a clinical trial to test the drug combination in patients with triple-negative breast cancer.
###

Note for patients: For information about currently available clinical trials for triple-negative breast cancer, call the Michigan Medicine Cancer AnswerLine at 800-865-1125.
Additional authors: Shreyas S. Rao, Jenna Stoehr, Danijela Dokic, Lei Wan, Joseph T. Decker, Kristine Konopka, Alexandra L. Thomas, Jia Wu, Virginia G. Kaklamani, Lonnie D. Shea

Funding: Society of Surgical Oncology, National Institutes of Health grant R01 GM097220, A Sister's Hope Foundation, Saslow Family

Disclosure: None

Reference: Oncotarget, doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.20202

Resources:

University of Michigan Comprehensive Cancer Center, http://www.
mcancer.
org

Michigan Medicine Cancer AnswerLine, 800-865-1125
Unusually warm ocean conditions off the Pacific Northwest in the last few years led anchovies, sardines and hake to begin spawning in Northwest waters much earlier in the year and, for anchovy, longer than biologists have ever recorded before, new research has found.
The rapid northerly shifts in spawning may offer a preview of future conditions if ocean warming continues, according to the new study published in Global Change Biology by scientists from the Pacific States Marine Fisheries Commission, Oregon State University and NOAA Fisheries' Northwest Fisheries Science Center.
Some species may spend less time in southern waters off California, where anchovy and sardines have been less prevalent in recent years, and more of the year off the Northwest, the authors suggest.
From 2015 to 2016 researchers found the highest concentrations of sardine, anchovy and hake larvae in the Northern California Current, off the Pacific Northwest, than they have in any year since collections began in 1998.
"Changes in spawning timing and poleward migration of fish populations due to warmer ocean conditions or global climate change will negatively affect areas that were historically dependent on these fish, and change the food web structure of the areas that the fish move into with unforeseen consequences," researchers wrote.
The research drew on samples collected from a transect off the central Oregon Coast called the Newport Hydrographic Line, where scientists have regularly measured ocean conditions for decades.
Scientists have never collected anchovy, sardine and hake larvae off the Northwest as early in the year as they did through 2015 and 2016, and have never found anchovy larvae throughout as much of the year.
The presence of anchovy larvae through almost the entire year indicates the species was spawning nearly continuously through the winter, far longer than its usual summer spawning period in the region, researchers found.
Anchovies and sardines typically spawn offshore, within the Columbia River plume.
In the last few years, though, researchers have found their eggs and larvae within about a mile of shore.
"We're getting these species that usually just spawn off the Northwest in the summer time, and now they're spawning year-round," said Ric Brodeur, a NOAA Fisheries research scientist at the Northwest Fisheries Science Center's research station in Newport, Oregon, and coauthor of the paper.
"Things are changing so much, it's hard to say what's normal these days."
While Pacific hake usually spawn off California, surveys in February 2016 found hake larvae earlier in the year and at higher concentrations than they have ever observed in the Northern California Current before.
Later summer surveys by Brodeur's group found very high abundances of juvenile hake off northern Oregon and southern Washington, which is highly unusual and suggests that many of the commercially important fish survived beyond the larval stage.
Scientists also found larvae of unusual species such as Pacific pompano, which normally spawns in the southern California Current in the spring and summer.
It was the first documented occurrence of pompano larvae off Oregon in at least 19 years.
The presence of fish such as anchovy and sardine earlier in the year may provide an additional food source for other species such as young salmon that have just migrated to the ocean, Brodeur said.
At the same time, they may also have other impacts on the food web that have yet to be measured, including possibly competing with typical winter-spawning fishes for food.
"As is often the case with ecosystem change, some species may benefit from changes in distribution and timing of prey whereas others may not be able to adapt and subsequently decline," said Toby Auth of the Pacific States Marine Fisheries Commission and lead author of the paper.
"Only through continued, regular surveys will we be able to discern the signals of future anomalies and their relationship to global climate change."
BLOOMINGTON, Ind.
-- More frequent rotation of plant inspectors at medical device manufacturing facilities could benefit consumers and lead to fewer product recalls.
That's the finding of a seven-year review of Food and Drug Administration inspections of and subsequent recalls at such facilities.
The study, by researchers at Indiana University, the University of Wisconsin and the University of Minnesota, found that plant inspections worked well when they were conducted by someone new, rather than by an investigator already familiar with the manufacturing facility.
"We found that FDA medical device plant inspection outcomes are highly predictive of future medical device recalls originating from the plant, but only when it is the first time that the FDA investigator has inspected that plant," said George Ball, assistant professor of operations and decision technologies at the IU Kelley School of Business and the study's lead author.
"The newness factor really matters."
Ball and his colleagues found a 21 percent increase in the risk of a future recall the second time a FDA investigator inspected a plant.
That risk rose to 57 percent by the third visit.
These findings were independent of whatever score the FDA investigator gave the plant.
"These increased recall risks may be symptomatic of increased familiarity between plant management and a repeat investigator, enabling the plant to relax its standards," said co-author Enno Siemsen, executive director of the Erdman Center for Operations and Technology Management at the University of Wisconsin.
Previous research has noted the complacency that investigators may develop during repeated visits to the same facilities but has focused on the number of violations found during inspections.
This outcome doesn't provide an accurate assessment of whether a plant is getting better or worse, Ball said.
It is possible that fewer violations are due to improved conditions.
Looking at recalls is a more objective approach, "because that's hard to manipulate," he said.
The study, "Do Plant Inspections Predict Future Quality?
The Role of Investigator Experience," appears in the INFORMS journal, Manufacturing & Service Operations Management.
The researchers tested the predictive relationship between 4,767 FDA plant inspection outcomes and 2,863 medical device recalls originating from 2,244 plants from 2000 to 2006.
Such FDA inspections normally occur every two years.
Compared to a low-quality inspection outcome, the researchers found that a high-quality inspection outcome from an investigator who has never inspected a plant in the past predicted a 31 percent reduced risk of a recall from that plant.
This means that inspection outcomes provide important information for future quality performance from the plant when the investigator is new to the plant.
By the second visit, the relationship between inspection outcomes and future recalls disappeared.
There was no statistical relationship between an FDA investigator's inspection outcome and future recall risks if the investigator had previously visited the plant.
Ball and his colleagues tested two potential solutions: rotating investigators so they never visit the plant more than once, and sequencing investigators so they never visit the same plant two times in a row.
"We found that rotating investigators provides the most benefit, and from the data in our study there appears to be enough inspectors to have them never revisit the same plant in a normal career," he said.
Putting a rotation strategy in place -- in which the FDA never sends an investigator back to the same plant -- could lead to about 100 fewer costly medical device recalls per year (or about 20 percent fewer recalls) in exchange for an increase of $800,000 in additional travel expenses for the FDA.
"Is 100 fewer recalls worth $800,000 a year?"
Ball asked.
Ball said these findings also demonstrate that the FDA -- and likely other federal regulators -- must navigate a fine line in their relationships with industry managers.
"While the FDA has worked diligently over the last decade to strengthen their collaborative relationship with medical device manufacturers, this study finds a clear risk associated with this approach," said co-author Rachna Shah, associate professor of supply chain and operations at the University of Minnesota.
"Overly familiar relationships and unwanted complacency may creep in for FDA investigators with prior experience inspecting that plant.
This comes at a high cost for medical device consumers in the form of a significant increase in medical device failures leading to recalls."
###

Editors: Copies of the paper are available upon request.
NEW YORK (September 26, 2017) - A new WCS study, published in the journal Ecosystem Health and Sustainability, of fish traders in coastal Kenya shows that women largely occupied fisheries with the lowest profits and are not saving money while working in these fisheries.
Management actions that intend to increase profits and sustainability, such as restrictions on use of gear that catch the smallest fish, have the potential to exclude female traders unless management also promotes social equity and gender coexistence.
The study, by Tim McClanahan and Caroline Abunge of WCS Kenya Marine Program, suggests that women have difficulties persisting in the more profitable fisheries, which along the coast of Kenya are often those where low numbers of larger fish are caught.
Men largely occupy the profitable fisheries and women are more likely to fill trader roles in fisheries with the lowest profits.
These low-profit fisheries generally focus on the catch of a large variety of small fish, often at unsustainable levels.
The authors' findings result from a study of 142 traders in 19 Kenyan coral reef fisheries that varied in their management and profitability.
The authors argue that if promoting sustainability and profits are not managed to promote female inclusion, women can easily and unintentionally be excluded.
Further, in the absence of good management and social equity programs, women can become the dominant traders and yet fail to make profits or achieve sustainability.
This follows increasing awareness on the roles that gender and management can play in fisheries, which is expressed in recent UN-FAO fisheries development themes.
Said lead author, Senior Conservation Zoologist Tim McClanahan: "Ignoring gender in fisheries has the potential to undermine efforts to achieve two social goals: gender equity and fisheries sustainability.
Both goals are best achieved when addressed together."
Maintaining resources at intermediate levels where overall production, catch, and fish body size diversity are high, and increasing gear and market diversity will help achieve gender coexistence and sustainability according to the authors.
Participating in profitable fisheries requires traders to have capital, use cell phones to communicate with distance markets, and take risks; behaviors that were more common among the male traders in this study.
Female traders need capital and greater mobility in order to reduce their chances of exclusion from more profitable and sustainable fisheries.
Women in coastal Kenya also need better access to fisheries knowledge and general education to help them take more active roles in fisheries management interventions.
###

This work was made possible by The Tiffany & Co. Foundation, a longstanding supporter of WCS's marine conservation program since 2000.
Kenya's Office of Science and Technology provided research clearance.
WCS (Wildlife Conservation Society)

MISSION: WCS saves wildlife and wild places worldwide through science, conservation action, education, and inspiring people to value nature.
To achieve our mission, WCS, based at the Bronx Zoo, harnesses the power of its Global Conservation Program in nearly 60 nations and in all the world's oceans and its five wildlife parks in New York City, visited by 4 million people annually.
WCS combines its expertise in the field, zoos, and aquarium to achieve its conservation mission.
Visit: newsroom.wcs.org Follow: @WCSNewsroom.
For more information: 347-840-1242.
CAMBRIDGE, MA - People with Type 1 diabetes must check their blood glucose several times a day and inject themselves with insulin to keep their blood sugar levels within a healthy range.
A better alternative, long sought by diabetes researchers, would be insulin that is engineered to linger in the bloodstream, becoming active only when needed, such as right after a meal.
One obstacle to developing this kind of "glucose-responsive insulin" is that it is difficult to know how these drugs will behave without testing them in animals.
MIT researchers have now created a computer model that should streamline the development process: Their new model can predict how glucose-responsive insulin (GRI) will affect patients' blood sugar, based on chemical traits such as how quickly the GRI becomes activated in the presence of glucose.
"The concept of GRI has been a longstanding goal of the diabetes field," says Michael Strano, the Carbon P. Dubbs Professor of Chemical Engineering at MIT.
"If done correctly, you could make it so that diabetics could take an occasional dose and never have to worry about their blood sugar."
The new model allowed the researchers to identify several strong GRI candidates, which they now plan to test in animals.
Strano is the senior author of two recent papers on GRIs, which appear in the journals Nature Chemistry and Advanced Healthcare Materials.
The first author of both papers is MIT graduate student Naveed Bakh.
"A rational design"

In recent years, scientists have experimented with several types of GRIs.
In the recent Nature Chemistry article, Strano and colleagues outlined some of the progress that has been made and laid out a series of specific synthetic approaches that could help make GRIs a practical reality.
These include using mathematical models of the human body to predict how GRIs would behave in patients, making it easier to design and test such drugs.
In the Advanced Healthcare Materials paper, the MIT team used that type of modeling to analyze insulin that is modified so that it can interact with glucose.
The insulin has molecules called PBA attached to it, and these PBA molecules can bind to glucose, which then activates the insulin.
Other GRI approaches that scientists have tried involve insulin embedded into hydrogels that release the drug when they encounter glucose, and insulin-carrying particles made from polymers that degrade when they bind to glucose.
In all of these cases, it's important to know how strongly the glucose will interact with the GRI and how quickly the insulin will begin acting.
The MIT team devised equations that describe the behavior of PBA-modified insulin based on parameters such as how strongly glucose binds to the GRI and how rapidly the insulin is activated.
They combined these equations with existing models of how glucose and insulin behave in different compartments of the body, such as blood vessels, muscle, and fatty tissue.
"We started by thinking about the GRI as a set of equations," Strano says.
"The result is the first rational design for the GRI."
As a result, the researchers can now enter specific GRI traits and model how the GRI will behave in the human body over a 24-hour period, with meals consumed at certain intervals throughout the day.
The model predicts how much blood sugar will spike after meals, the strength of the triggered insulin response, and the resulting blood sugar level.
The researchers incorporated the American Diabetes Association's recommended blood sugar limits into their model, allowing them to determine which GRI parameters produce blood sugar control within the suggested guidelines.
While this model is specific to one category of GRI, the researchers plan to apply this approach to develop similar models for other types of GRIs.
New candidates

Strano says he hopes that other researchers, particularly medicinal chemists, will use the new model to guide development of new GRI candidates.
The MIT team is also pursuing several of the best candidates predicted by the model and plans to work with Michael Weiss, a professor of biochemistry at Case Western Reserve University, to test them in mice.
The researchers believe that this approach could be extended to other types of drugs that would respond to changes in physiological conditions, for example, anticoagulants that are activated when blood clotting proteins become elevated.
"We could envision a future where that's the norm for all therapeutics: We could ask our drugs to modulate their potency based on our immediate, instantaneous need in real time," Strano says.
"That's pie-in-the-sky at this point, but the starting point of this concept is a model for their design."
###

MIT postdoc Gili Bisker and graduate student Michael Lee are also authors of the Advanced Healthcare Materials paper.
Other authors of the Nature Chemistry paper include MIT graduate student Abel Cortinas, MIT Institute Professor Robert Langer, MIT associate professor of chemical engineering Daniel Anderson, Case Western Reserve University Professor Michael Weiss, University of North Carolina Associate Professor Zhen Ghu, and JDRF Associate Vice President for Translational Development Sanjoy Dutta.
The research was funded by the JDRF organization.
Known for their biodiversity richness, the Caribbean Islands are now adding two new species of bird-catcher trees to their list of botanical treasures.
Commonly referred to as bird-catcher trees, the species whose ripe fruits are sticky and can be glued to birds, are from the four-o'clock family (Nyctaginaceae) and only found in Puerto Rico.
Baptised Pisonia horneae and Pisonia roqueae by authors Marcos A. Caraballo-Ortiz, doctoral candidate at The Pennsylvania State University, US and Jorge C. Trejo-Torres, researcher at The Institute for Regional Conservation in Florida, US, the two unusual trees were named to honor the unrecognised work of two extraordinary self-driven women who devoted decades on educational projects in botany.
The research was published in the open access journal Phytokeys.
"Finding large organisms new to science from a relatively small and well-studied island seems implausible, but this recent naming of the two large trees from Puerto Rico proves that explorations in nature and museums can still produce exciting novelties."
explains Trejo-Torres.
The two new trees belong to an extraordinary genus (Pisonia), containing rare plants mainly known for the ability to tangle birds with their sticky fruits, which inspired the common name "bird-catcher" used in the Pacific region.
Characteristic for the two new trees are also swollen trunks that wrap over the rocks resembling an elephant foot with toes.
"Birds are the main dispersal agents for Pisonia trees, carrying the sticky fruits glued to their feathers to distant islands.
However, sometimes these fruits can trap too tightly and even kills birds, as seen in documentaries."
remarks lead author, Caraballo-Ortiz.
"So far, we do not know of cases where birds have been trapped by the sticky fruits of the new species, but future studies will explore this possibility"

One of the trees, Pisonia horneae, is dedicated to Frances W. Horne (1873-1967), an American illustrator who spent 45 years painting 750 watercolors of plants from Puerto Rico, of which only a small fraction were published.
The other tree, Pisonia roqueae, was named after Dr. Ana Roqu de Duprey (1853-1933), a Puerto Rican educator, writer, and suffragist.
As an amateur ethnobotanist, she spent over three decades to prepare a manuscript aimed to make botany accessible to the general public, which was never published.
"It only seemed natural to name the two new species after these two extraordinary women who spent decades on large educational projects aimed to divulge botanical knowledge in Puerto Rico."
explains Trejo-Torres.
"Just like the two large trees remained unrecognised by science until now, the enormous efforts of these two women, who dedicated part of their lives to botanical work, remained largely unrecognised by the community."
"The scientific relevance of naming these trees is that they thrive in the Puerto Rican forests, including the Luquillo Mountains, which are among the most well studied areas in the world.
World-scattered ecologists and conservationists actively working on Puerto Rican forests and plants now have a nice and surprising update to make in their databases."
concluded Caraballo-Ortiz.
###

Original source:

Caraballo-Ortiz MA, Trejo-Torres JC (2017) Two new endemic tree species from Puerto Rico: Pisonia horneae and Pisonia roqueae (Nyctaginaceae).
PhytoKeys 86: 97-115. https:/ / doi.
org/ 10.
3897/ phytokeys.
11249

Additional Information:

Funding organisations include the United States Department of Agriculture-Forest Service-International Institute of Tropical Forestry, The Institute for Regional Conservation, and The Alfred P. Sloan Foundation.
CAMBRIDGE, MA -- Influenza viruses mutate rapidly, which is why flu vaccines have to be redesigned every year.
A new study from MIT sheds light on just how these viruses evolve so quickly, and offers a potential way to slow them down.
The MIT team found that flu viruses' rapid evolution relies in part on their ability to hijack some of the cellular machinery of the infected host cell -- specifically, a group of proteins called chaperones, which help other proteins fold into the correct shape.
When the viruses were unable to get help from these chaperones, they did not evolve as rapidly as when they could obtain extensive help from host chaperones.
Moreover, the specific evolutionary trajectories followed by individual flu proteins depend on host chaperone activities.
The findings suggest that interfering with host cell chaperones could help prevent flu viruses from becoming resistant to existing drugs and vaccines, says Matthew Shoulders, the Whitehead Career Development Associate Professor of Chemistry at MIT.
"It's relatively easy to make a drug that kills a virus, or an antibody that stops a virus from propagating, but it's very hard to make one that the virus doesn't promptly escape from once you start using it," Shoulders says.
"Our data suggest that, at some point in the future, targeting host chaperones might restrict the ability of a virus to evolve and allow us to kill viruses before they become drug resistant."
Shoulders is the senior author of the study, which is a collaborative effort with Leonid Mirny, a professor of physics at MIT; and Yu-Shan Lin, a professor at Tufts University.
Angela Phillips, an MIT graduate student and National Science Foundation graduate fellow, is the lead author of the paper, which appears in the journal eLife on Sept. 26.
A little help

Flu viruses carry eight genome segments, all encoded by RNA.
Of particular interest to flu researchers is the gene for the hemagglutinin protein, which is displayed on the surface of the viral envelope and interacts with cells of the infected host.
Most flu vaccines target this protein, but these vaccines have to be updated every year to keep up with the protein's ability to evolve quickly.
However, this rapid evolution also poses a challenge for the viruses themselves.
When proteins mutate, they may become unable to fold into the shape they need to assume to perform their function.
Previous research, such as the pioneering work of the late Susan Lindquist, a biology professor at MIT, has shown that in many organisms, evolution of endogenous proteins depends on the ability of that organism's chaperones to help mutated proteins fold.
In this study, the MIT team investigated whether viruses can take advantage of their host's chaperone proteins to help with their own evolution.
"Viral proteins are known to interact with host chaperones, so we suspected that this interplay could have a major impact on what evolutionary pathways are available to the virus," Shoulders says.
To test their hypothesis, the researchers generated one set of cells with low protein-folding activity by inhibiting a key chaperone protein called heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90).
In another set of cells, they used chemical genetic methods previously developed by Shoulders to enhance the levels of numerous chaperone proteins, creating a cellular environment with high protein-folding activity.
The researchers infected both sets of cells, plus a group of cells with normal chaperone levels, with a strain of flu and then allowed the virus to evolve for nearly 200 generations.
They found that the virus did indeed evolve faster in the cells with higher chaperone levels than in the cells with inhibited chaperone proteins.
"This finding suggests that influenza will acquire new traits that might be beneficial for it faster when you have the heat shock response activated, and slower when you have key chaperones inhibited," Shoulders says.
Blocking escape routes

The researchers also identified specific proteins that tend to become more mutated in cells with more chaperones.
One of these is the hemagglutinin protein, and another is an enzyme called PA, which is a type of RNA polymerase that helps the virus copy its genes.
The team also identified specific amino acids within these proteins that are more likely to become mutated in different protein-folding environments.
Targeting this phenomenon could offer a way to delay viral evolution and decelerate escape from existing drugs and vaccines, the researchers say.
Many chaperone inhibitors already exist, and some are now being tested in clinical trials to treat cancer and some viral infections.
The new data imply that treating patients with a chaperone-inhibiting drug along with another antiviral therapy, such as a drug or vaccine, could help ensure that the virus does not evolve resistance to the therapeutic.
The researchers believe this phenomenon is likely also found in other viruses, and they are now studying HIV, another virus that mutates rapidly.
They also plan to study how a host cell's protein-folding capacity may affect the evolution of antiviral drug or antibody resistance, using therapeutics that circulating viruses are already resistant to.
"We can recapitulate environmental pressures like antiviral drugs in the lab, in the context of different host protein-folding environments, and see whether there's a big impact.
Our data suggest that there's going to be, but we have to actually test it out," Shoulders says.
###

The research was funded by the Smith Family Foundation Award for Excellence in Biomedical Research and an NSF CAREER Award.
PHILADELPHIA (September 26, 2017) - Elderly, chronically ill people experience frequent changes in health status that require transitions among health care providers and settings.
Significant attention has been focused on coordinated transitional care models that assure continuity of care, prevention of hospital readmission, avoidance of complications, and close clinical treatment and management.
But specific transitional needs of obese people who need to be transferred to nursing homes for post-acute care are often overlooked.
A study from the University of Pennsylvania School of Nursing (Penn Nursing) illustrates the challenges of transitioning persons who are severely obese to a nursing home after an acute care stay and, specifically, the experiences of hospital discharge planners.
"Barriers in Transitioning Patients with Severe Obesity from Hospital to Nursing Homes" has been published in the Western Journal of Nursing Research.
The researchers found that patient size and perceived availability of bariatric equipment can act as barriers to discharging obese patients to nursing homes.
Failure to move patients who are severely obese out of hospitals into post-acute care has the potential to lead to poor outcomes associated with extended hospital stays.
These include an elevated risk for hospital adverse events and increased cost.
"Given increasing obesity rates, health care delivery systems must be prepared to provide necessary resources and all levels of care, including transitions for hospitalized patients who are severely obese needing nursing home care post-discharge," explains lead-author Christine K. Bradway, PhD, RN, CRNP, FAAN, Associate Professor of Gerontological Nursing.
"Understanding the unique nursing and transitional care needs of patients who are severely obese and optimizing their transitional care experiences is an increasingly relevant area of study."
###

Co-authors of the study include Holly C. Felix, PhD, MPA and Xiaocong Li, PhD(c), both of the University of Arkansas at Little Rock; and Tonya Whitfield of Hornby Zeller Associates.
The study was supported by the Translational Research Institute grants UL1TR000039 and KL2TR000063 through the National Institute of Health's National Center for Research Resources, the National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences, and the Research Committee of the University of Pennsylvania's School of Nursing.
About the University of Pennsylvania School of Nursing

The University of Pennsylvania School of Nursing is one of the world's leading schools of nursing.
For the second year in a row, it is ranked the #1 nursing school in the world by QS University, and has four graduate programs ranked number one by U.S. News & World Report, the most of any school in the United States.
Penn Nursing is consistently among the nation's top recipients of nursing research funding from the National Institutes of Health.
Penn Nursing prepares nurse scientists and nurse leaders to meet the health needs of a global society through research, education, and practice.
Follow Penn Nursing on: Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Instagram & YouTube.
"My back feels so stiff!"
We often hear our friends say.
Well, that doesn't mean your friend's back is actually stiff, according to a new study at the University of Alberta's Faculty of Rehabilitation Medicine.
"A conscious experience of feeling stiff does not reflect true biomechanical back stiffness," explained Greg Kawchuk, professor and back and spine expert in the Department of Physical Therapy.
"When we use the same word, stiffness, to describe a feeling and how we measure actual stiffness, we assume these words are describing the same thing.
But that is not always the case."
In the study, Kawchuk and his team asked participants how stiff their backs felt to them.
After that, using a customized device, they measured just how stiff the back actually was.
"There was no relation between biomechanical stiffness and the reported feeling of stiffness," he said.
"What people describe as stiffness is something different than the measurement of stiffness."
Tasha Stanton, lead author and senior research fellow of pain neuroscience at the University of South Australia, said that the feeling of stiffness may be a protective construct that is created by our nervous system.
"It's our body's way of protecting ourselves, possibly from strain, further injury or more pain," she said.
With lower back pain being the leading cause of disability worldwide affecting approximately 632 million people, it is important to examine mechanisms associated with lower back pain and its symptoms, including stiffness.
"Words are important.
The words patients use to describe a problem in the clinic may not be the same thing we as clinicians measure in the clinic," said Kawchuk.
"We need to find out what it means exactly when someone says they have a stiff back.
We now know it might not mean that their back is mechanically stiff.
It could mean they feel their movements are slower and more painful."
ANN ARBOR--Eighty-eight percent of American adults viewed the August total solar eclipse directly or electronically.
This audience of 215 million adults is nearly twice the size of the viewership of recent Super Bowl football games.
A national study of American adults conducted by the University of Michigan under a cooperative agreement with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration found that 154 million American adults watched the eclipse directly, using a combination of solar glasses designed to allow the direct viewing of the sun and various other devices --pin-hole viewers, for example.
Approximately 20 million adults traveled from their home area to another area to be able to watch the solar eclipse, usually seeking a higher degree of totality.
"This level of public interest and engagement with a science-oriented event is unparalleled," said Jon Miller, director of the International Center for the Advancement of Scientific Literacy at U-M's Institute for Social Research.
This is the first coast-to-coast total solar eclipse to occur in nearly a century and the wide availability of television, the internet and smartphones alerted most adults to the event.
Some individuals were not able to step outside and view the eclipse because of work or other obligations, and approximately 61 million American adults viewed the eclipse electronically.
Miller's survey--beginning on the evening of the eclipse and continuing for a week after the event--found that most adults viewed the eclipse with their family, friends or co-workers.
Only 3 percent viewed the eclipse as a part of an organized group.
Miller noted that this was not unexpected since the eclipse occurred mid-day on a regular work day.
The eclipse was widely shared: One in three viewers took pictures or a video of the events and about half of those adults reported that they shared their pictures with others using social media, email and other electronic means.
Most adults who viewed the eclipse found it to be both enjoyable and educational.
On a zero-to-10 scale, Miller found that adults gave the viewing experience a score of 7.6 for being enjoyable and 7.0 for being educational.
The 2017 Michigan Scientific Literacy Study is based on a national probability sample of U.S. households from a U.S.
Postal Service listing of all occupied households.
The data were collected by AmeriSpeak, a panel service operated by the National Opinion Research Center at the University of Chicago.
The February-March survey included online and telephone interviews with 2,834 adults age 18 and older, and 2,211 of the same adults responded to a follow-up survey in August immediately after the eclipse.
Miller noted that this was an initial report about the number of adults who viewed the eclipse and how they prepared for the eclipse event.
A final follow-up survey of the same adults will be conducted in October and November of 2017 to assess how viewing the eclipse may have stimulated viewers to seek additional information about eclipses, the sun, the solar system and related astronomical information.
New Rochelle, NY, September 26, 2017--Cardiovascular disease remains the main cause of death among women, but evidence-based advances are enhancing clinical care in seven key areas, improving the lives of women living with and at risk for heart disease.
A review of recent advances in research and clinical guidelines, and recommendations for medical practice, clinical research, and policy that can help further reduce morbidity and mortality due to cardiovascular disease are featured in an article in Journal of Women's Health, a peer-reviewed publication from Mary Ann Liebert, Inc., publishers.
The article is available free on the Journal of Women's Health website.
Pejman Raeisi-Giglou, DO, Eileen Hsich, MD, and colleagues from the Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine of Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine (OH), Rush University Medical Center (Chicago, IL), WomenHeart (Washington, DC), and University of California, Davis coauthored the article "Advances in Cardiovascular Health in Women over the Past Decade: Guideline Recommendations for Practice."
They discuss research and clinical advances across several aspects of cardiovascular disease (CVD): primary CVD prevention and community heart care; secondary prevention of CVD, stroke, and heart failure; and cardiomyopathies, ischemia with nonobstructive coronary artery disease, spontaneous coronary artery dissection, and arrhythmias and device therapies.
"In this informative review of the impact of evidence-based medical research on cardiovascular health in women over the last 10 years, Hsich et al.
emphasize the importance of increased awareness, partnership with national organizations, sex-specific research, and changes in policy going forward to achieve continued progress," says Susan G. Kornstein, MD, Editor-in-Chief of Journal of Women's Health, Executive Director of the Virginia Commonwealth University Institute for Women's Health, Richmond, VA, and President of the Academy of Women's Health.
###

About the Journal

Journal of Women's Health, published monthly, is a core multidisciplinary journal dedicated to the diseases and conditions that hold greater risk for or are more prevalent among women, as well as diseases that present differently in women.
Led by Editor-in-Chief Susan G. Kornstein, MD, Executive Director of the Virginia Commonwealth University Institute for Women's Health, Richmond, VA, and President of the Academy of Women's Health, the Journal covers the latest advances and clinical applications of new diagnostic procedures and therapeutic protocols for the prevention and management of women's healthcare issues.
Complete tables of content and a sample issue may be viewed on the Journal of Women's Health website.
Journal of Women's Health is the official journal of the Academy of Women's Health and the Society for Women's Health Research.
About the Academy

Academy of Women's Health is an interdisciplinary, international association of physicians, nurses, and other health professionals who work across the broad field of women's health, providing its members with up-to-date advances and options in clinical care that will enable the best outcomes for their women patients.
The Academy's focus includes the dissemination of translational research and evidence-based practices for disease prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of women across the lifespan.
About the Publisher

Mary Ann Liebert, Inc., publishers is a privately held, fully integrated media company known for establishing authoritative peer-reviewed journals in many promising areas of science and biomedical research, including LGBT Health, Transgender Health, Population Health Management, and Breastfeeding Medicine.
Its biotechnology trade magazine, GEN (Genetic Engineering & Biotechnology News), was the first in its field and is today the industry's most widely read publication worldwide.
A complete list of the firm's 80 journals, books, and newsmagazines is available on the Mary Ann Liebert, Inc., publishers website.
ANN ARBOR---A new University of Michigan study confirms what many hospital emergency rooms nationwide are seeing: Teens playing contact sports suffer from concussions.
In fact, one out of five teens reported at least one concussion diagnosis during their lifetime, and 5.5 percent have had more than one concussion, the study indicated.
The study, published today in the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA), comes at a time as interest in concussions among pro athletes -- especially those in the National Football League -- has increased in the last decade.
Little, however, is known about the prevalence of concussions among teens in the United States, said Phil Veliz, a researcher at the Institute for Research on Women and Gender.
Veliz and colleagues analyzed data from more than 13,088 adolescents in the 2016 Monitoring the Future survey, a national study by U-M funded by the National Institute on Drug Abuse that tracks U.S. students in grades 8, 10 and 12.
Students were asked: "Have you ever had a head injury that was diagnosed as a concussion?"
Sociodemographic variables included sex, race/ethnicity, grade level, and participation in competitive sport within the past 12 months.
The group, which included 50.2 percent female, indicated if they played at least one of 21 different sports.
The findings showed that 19.5 percent reported at least one diagnosed concussion in their lifetime, which was consistent with regional studies and with emergency department reports stating contact sports are a leading cause of concussion among teens.
"Greater effort to track concussions using large-scale epidemiological data are needed to identify high-risk subpopulations and monitor prevention efforts," the researchers wrote.
Several factors, the study noted, were associated with higher lifetime prevalence of reporting a diagnosed concussion: Being male, white, in a higher grade, and participating in competitive sports.
###

For an embargoed copy of the paper, email mediarelations@jamanetwork.org
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Physician and healthcare professional advocates from the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) are joined by rheumatology patients on Capitol Hill this week to urge lawmakers to address the significant drug cost and access issues affecting millions of Americans living with arthritis and other rheumatologic diseases.
More than 100 advocates met with Congressional and Senate leaders and staff today to advocate for meaningful legislative reforms that would lower biologic drug costs and make life-changing therapies and treatments more accessible to the 54 million Americans living with rheumatic diseases.
"All across America, people living with chronic illnesses like rheumatoid arthritis are routinely denied timely, life-sustaining and clinically appropriate treatments because of cost or access issues," said Sharad Lakhanpal, MBBS, MD, President of the American College of Rheumatology.
"We are urging Congressional leaders to come together around common-sense reforms that will ensure their constituents can access and afford the therapies and services needed to avoid long-term disability, remain active in the workforce and their communities, and maintain quality of life."
Rheumatology advocates urged Congressional leaders to support legislative fixes that would help address the following issues impacting patient care:

Specialty Drug Co-Pays: Health insurers are increasingly making biologic and biosimilar therapies unaffordable for patients by placing them on so called "specialty tiers," which requires that beneficiaries pay a percentage of the drug's cost rather than a fixed co-pay amount.
These patients are often faced with the choice of paying hundreds of dollars per month in co-pays for biologic therapies, or reducing or skipping their medications due to cost concerns.
ACR advocates are urging Congressional leaders to support the Patients' Access to Treatments Act (H.R.
2999), a bipartisan bill recently introduced by Rep. David McKinley (R-WV) and Rep. G.K. Butterfield (D-NC) that would require health plans to limit patient cost-sharing for drugs placed on specialty tiers.
Pharmacy Benefit Manager (PBM) Pricing Practices: As the go-between hired by insurers to manage drug benefit programs, Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs) were originally created to control drug costs by negotiating discounts on the behalf of patients.
However, PBMs have recently become incredibly effective at keeping much of the savings for themselves by often pocketing the difference between the fees they charge to pharmacies and the prices they negotiate from manufacturers - prices that are almost always kept secret.
This secrecy drives up co-pays and out-of-pocket costs for patients while delivering record profits to PBMs.
ACR advocates are urging Congress to consider requiring PBMs to be more transparent about their payment practices and make it harder to hide the true cost of prescription drugs from patients.
Medicare Therapy Caps: ACR advocates are also urging members of Congress to support the bipartisan Medicare Access to Rehabilitation Services Act of 2017 (H.R.
807 and S. 253) which would repeal once and for all the Medicare therapy caps scheduled to go into effect in 2018.
This arbitrary payment cap would severely limit access to vital rehabilitation services like physical and occupational therapy for Medicare beneficiaries living with chronic diseases.
Though Congress has come together to delay implementation of the caps more than 13 times since they were first introduced in 1997, they have yet to be permanently repealed.
"I'm encouraged by the dedication and enthusiasm on display from our members today, as well as the positive reception we received from legislative offices," said Dr. Angus Worthing, Chair of the ACR's Government Affairs Committee.
"Many Congressional and Senate leaders recognize that drug costs are a significant problem; now we need them to come together around practical solutions that will bring relief to our patients.
I'd like to thank all of our advocates for coming out this week and supporting policies that will truly make a positive difference for the millions of Americans living with rheumatic diseases."
The advocacy appeals to Senate and Congressional leaders come as arthritis patient and provider advocates throughout the nation recognize September's Rheumatic Disease Awareness Month.
###

About the American College of Rheumatology

The American College of Rheumatology (ACR) is the nation's leading advocacy organization for the rheumatology care community, representing more than 9,500 rheumatologists and rheumatology health professionals.
As an ethically driven, professional membership organization committed to improving healthcare for Americans living with rheumatic diseases, the ACR advocates for high-quality, high-value policies and reforms that will ensure safe, effective, affordable and accessible rheumatology care.
One of the most contagious of the transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, is chronic wasting disease (CWD) which affects deer and represents a risk to human health and the health of farm animals.
There are many problems facing livestock managers in North America in the face of CWD, a research paper published in the International Journal of Global Environmental Issues, summarizes the efforts in disease surveillance and risk management of CWD and shows that past management strategies such as selective culling, herd reduction, and hunter surveillance have had only limited effectiveness.
The summary points towards new advice for optimal, cost-effective strategies in aggressive disease control.
William Leiss of the University of Ottawa, in Ontario, Canada, and colleagues there and elsewhere in Canada and the USA, explain how CWD is a fatal neurodegenerative disease of various species of animals in the cervid family of mammals.
This family includes deer, elk, reindeer, caribou, and moose.
The team points out that CWD is endemic in both wild (free-ranging) and captive (farmed) populations of these species which further complicates disease control.
The disease is most prevalent among deer species, affecting in particular mule deer, but also black-tailed deer and white-tailed deer.
Chronic wasting disease is closely related to so-called "mad cow disease", bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), the equivalent disease in sheep known as scrapie and the human disease variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (variant CJD).
These various diseases are caused by the misfolding of proteins or protein fragments, known as prions, which self-replicate, or propagate, in tissue, specifically brain tissue, and lead to cell death and the ultimate demise of the affected organ.
The team points out that disease surveillance in North America has provided some qualitative assessments of the overall risk of CWD in Canada and the USA.
Animals in almost half of all US states and two Canadian provinces are afflicted.
The first case outside North America was identified in South Korea in 1997 and while the European Union has strict rules and surveillance in place, an afflicted farmed reindeer was identified in 2016 by the Norwegian Institute for Nature Research and subsequently two wild individuals.
The problem is thus likely to become an intercontinental one unless more research is done to understand the disease and find ways to control it.
A new risk control strategy has been proposed for CWD in North America in which controlled forest fires are lit in areas where vegetation and soil are heavily contaminated with the pathogenic prions shed by animal waste and carcasses.
###

Leiss, W., Westphal, M., Tyshenko, M.G., Croteau, M.C., Oraby, T., Adamowicz, W., Goddard, E., Cashman, N.R., Darshan, S. and Krewski, D. (2017) 'Challenges in managing the risks of chronic wasting disease', Int.
Global Environmental Issues, Vol.
16, No.
4, pp.277-302.
DURHAM, N.C. -- Mutations tend to get a bad rap, and deservedly so.
A single defect in our DNA can strip us of our sight, thicken our lungs with mucus, prompt us to bleed to death, weaken our muscles or fill our organs with tumors.
But in certain situations, a mutation can actually be a source of strength.
For microorganisms, the right mutation can confer superpowers, allowing them to traverse continents, infect new hosts and avoid drug-induced annihilation.
Microbes are such big fans of mutations that they have rigged their genomes to accumulate more and more of them.
In a study published September 26 in eLife, Duke researchers show that lineages of the fungal pathogen Cryptococcus deuterogattii house a specific mutation in their DNA that increases their mutation rate.
These 'hypermutators,' as they are called, rapidly develop resistance to the antifungal drugs FK506 and rapamycin.
"If there weren't mutations, there wouldn't be any raw genetic material for evolution and selection to act upon," said Joseph Heitman, senior study author and professor and chair of molecular genetics and microbiology at Duke University School of Medicine.
"These hypermutators are probably a lot more common that we think, particularly among pathogenic fungi."
For nearly two decades, a rare but potentially deadly fungus called Cryptococcus deuterogattii has gained a foothold in the Pacific Northwest and Vancouver Island.
Unlike other fungi that predominantly infect patients with compromised immune systems, Cryptococcus deuterogattii has sickened hundreds of otherwise healthy people.
The emerging fungal pathogen causes severe pulmonary and central nervous system infections, and is fatal if left untreated.
Blake Billmyre, a former graduate student in Heitman's lab, sequenced the entire genome of three different strains of C. deuterogattii (a clinical isolate from Seattle in the early 1970s, an environmental isolate from a eucalyptus tree in the San Francisco area circa 1990, and a clinical isolate from Brazil from 1980) that are most closely related to those causing the ongoing outbreak.
He discovered that all three isolates of the fungus were missing a single base of DNA in MSH2, one of several genes involved in "mismatch repair" to fix mistakes that arise during DNA replication.
Interestingly, humans that harbor mutations in MSH2 have a condition known as Lynch syndrome.
Because their genomes accumulate errors more quickly than most people, these patients carry a 75 percent lifetime risk of developing colorectal cancer, and are also more likely to develop cancers of the urinary tract, ovary, stomach, small intestine, hepatobiliary tract, skin and brain.
Billmyre decided to test whether mutations in MSH2 in fungi also caused their genomes to mutate at a faster pace.
He and Shelly Clancey, a technician in Heitman's lab, set up competition cultures of Cryptococcus deuterogattii, pitting wildtype strains with those containing an MSH2 hypermutator mutation.
When they grew the fungi under standard, non-stress conditions, the strains grew in test tubes at the same rate.
However, when they grew them under stressful conditions, adding the selective pressure of antifungals like rapamycin and FK506, the hypermutator strains took over almost all of the cultures because they could more rapidly acquire resistance to the drugs.
By accumulating mutations, the fungi were able to survive drug treatment.
But in the process, they lost much of their virulence.
The researchers found that all three strains with the hypermutator were significantly weakened compared to the outbreak strains.
"We think that is because of the thousands of mutations caused by the hypermutator," said Heitman.
"It seems to cause a mutational meltdown."
The researchers are currently looking to see what percentage of other clinical isolates are hypermutators.
Their findings thus far indicate it could be a significant number.
"Multiple studies have come out recently indicating that hypermutators may be present in bacteria, fungi and perhaps even higher eukaryotic populations.
So it is likely to be pretty widespread and is an important consideration in terms of thinking about how antifungal drug resistance develops," said Billmyre, lead study author and now a postdoctoral fellow at the Stowers Institute for Medical Research.
Even though illegal in most of US, 1 in 5 fans have gambled on pro sports and three-quarters of those who did say it makes games more interesting

LOWELL, Mass.
- Although gambling on professional sports is illegal in most states, one in five fans have placed a bet and 73 percent of those who did so said it made watching the games more interesting, according to the results of a national UMass Lowell-Washington Post poll released today.
The poll also found that a majority of Americans (55 percent) support making gambling on professional sports legal in all states - it is legal now only in Delaware, Montana, Nevada and Oregon - compared to 33 percent who disapprove, according to the new poll.
The findings illustrate a shift in opinion from two decades ago when 56 percent of respondents were opposed to legalizing sports betting, according to a 1993 Gallup/CNN/USA Today poll.
"A majority of Americans now favor sports betting, but this is especially true among respondents younger than 50.
This suggests that support may actually continue to increase in years to come.
I would not be surprised if we see a push to legalize sports betting in more states, especially in states with the ballot initiative," said Prof. Joshua Dyck, co-director of the UMass Lowell Center for Public Opinion, which partnered with The Washington Post on the national poll.
Despite much public attention in recent years on fantasy sports leagues and daily fantasy sports sites like DraftKings and FanDuel, only 16 percent of sports fans have participated in a fantasy league in the last five years, the survey found.
The vast majority of those who did - 80 percent - participated in fantasy football.
Less than a quarter of those who participated in fantasy sports did so via a daily fantasy league like DraftKings or FanDuel, which award cash payouts.
That translates into only 3 percent of all Americans participating in daily fantasy leagues in the last five years.
"With the controversies surrounding daily fantasy leagues, it's interesting that only 3 percent of Americans have played in a daily fantasy football league in the last five years.
Compared to overall sports gambling, daily fantasy appears to be just a drop in the bucket," Dyck said.
Other findings from the poll include:

Support for legalizing sports betting is strongest among avid sports fans (70 percent, compared to 43 percent among non-fans) and men (63 percent, compared to 47 percent of women).
Among ethnic groups, Latinos surveyed showed the most support for legalizing sports gambling, 65 percent compared to 53 percent of white and 51 percent of black respondents.
Among age groups, 40- to 49-year-olds (68 percent) and 18- to 29-year-olds (62 percent) were the most supportive of legalization, compared to 41 percent of those older than 65 and 51 percent of 50- to 64-year-olds.
Results of the UMass Lowell-Washington Post poll, which looks at Americans' opinions on a variety of sports and related issues, are based on live interviews with a random sample of 1,000 American adults conducted in English and Spanish via cellular telephones and landlines Aug. 14 through Aug. 21.
The margin of error is plus or minus 3.7 percent for all respondents.
Details on methodology and additional poll data and analysis are available at http://www.
edu/ polls .
With the advent of satellite observation techniques and improvements in data assimilation schemes, the initial state in an NWP (numerical weather prediction) model has become more realistic, which is fast becoming the most vital part in the process.
Furthermore, among the many available satellite observations, infrared hyperspectral measurements are known to have the greatest impact on weather forecasting.
In a new study published in Advances in Atmospheric Sciences, an attempt was made to select hyperspectral sounder IASI (Infrared Atmospheric Sounding Interferometer) channels from the 314 channels provided by EUMETSAT (European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites) for data assimilation in the UK Met Office (UKMO) Unified Model (UM), using a one-dimensional variational analysis (1D-Var).
The channel selection was performed by considering the degree of improvement in retrieved atmospheric parameters from 1D-Var over the background atmospheric parameters, using the Channel Score Index (CSI) as a measure of success.
In the UM, used operationally by not only the UKMO but also the KMA (Korea Meteorological Administration), IASI measurements have been assimilated since 183 channels were subjectively selected in 2007.
Instead of the currently used 183 channels, 200 newly selected IASI channels, including substantially different H2O and shortwave infrared channels, were used for the UM data assimilation.
From the two trial runs using the UKMO UM data assimilation system, it was noted that the new IASI channels gave an overall neutral impact in terms of the NWP index based on parameters such as 500-hPa geopotential.
However, experiments resulted in a significant bias reduction in the relative humidity forecasts, in particular over the upper-troposphere layer from 500 hPa to 200 hPa, which was attributed to additional H2O channels in the new IASI channels.
A new paper published in the Zoological Journal of the Linnean Society has identified and named 15 new species of spider in the Caribbean.
Given the vernacular names "smiley faced" spiders due to the distinctive markings on their backs, the new species have been given names including S. davidattenboroughi, S. barackobamai, and S.leonardodicaprioi.
Although the Caribbean region is recognized as a hotspot for biodiversity, many species remain understudied.
The "smiley faced" spider is a key example of this.
Despite having profuse variation in its distinct colour patterns it was, until recently, thought to be one species with extensive variation.
However, the first molecular study of 'smiley faced' spiders has revealed that there are many more species within the genus, of which 15 are described in the paper.
The discovery of these new species not only changes our estimates of biodiversity, but has a big impact for conservation biology.
Each species now requires elevation of its conservation status and, as each new species of "smiley face" spiders has its own unique "smile," the newly distinguished variation may become a source of local pride.
(Researchers collected specimens from Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, Jamaica, the Lesser Antilles, Florida, South Carolina, Costa Rica, Mexico, and Colombia.)
Alongside titles honouring family members and pets of the paper's authors, many species are named after notable figures.
Some of the most recognisable names include:

Spintharus barackobamai

In honour of former President Barack Obama the authors of the paper named this species to honour "the dignity, humanitarianism, statesmanship, and respect" they considered Obama to have brought to the oval office.
Spintharus berniesandersi

Named for former presidential candidate and U.S.
Senator from Vermont Bernie Sanders, this species was named to honour a politician the paper characterizes as "a tireless fighter for human rights and equality, and environmentally aware social democracy."
Spintharus davidattenboroughi

Named after the naturalist and broadcaster Sir David Attenborough, this species was titled to honour his "extraordinary effort to enlighten the public about the wonders of the natural world, to make humanity care about nature, and for inspiring countless people to pursue the study of biology."
Spintharus davidbowiei

The article authors named this species to honour "the great artist David Bowie who passed away prematurely in 2016, but whose music will continue to inspire the generations to come."
Spintharus leonardodicaprioi

This species is named in tribute to the actor Leonardo DiCaprio for his "amazing acting, and, in particular, for his leading role in bringing awareness of the perils of global climate change to the public and politicians."
Spintharus michelleobamaae

The authors of the paper named this species in honour of Michelle Obama, "who has long fought to defend human rights, fairness, and equality for all, with her characteristic dignity and grace."
"This was an undergraduate research project," says Ingi Agnarsson, associate professor and curator of invertebrate collections in the department of biology at the University of Vermont, who led the new study.
"In naming these spiders, the students and I wanted to honor people who stood up for both human rights and warned about climate change--leaders and artists who promoted sensible approaches for a better world."
###

The paper "A radiation of the ornate Caribbean 'smiley-faced spiders', with descriptions of 15 new species (Araneae, Theridiidae, Spintharus)" is available at: https:/ / academic.
com/ zoolinnean/ article/ doi/ 10.
1093/ zoolinnean/ zlx056/ 4222834/ A-radiation-of-the-ornate-Caribbean-smiley-faced

Direct correspondence to:

Ingi Agnarsson Ph.D.
Associate Professor and Curator of Invertebrate Collections, Department of Biology, University of Vermont

109 Carrigan Drive, Burlington, VT 05405

E-mail: iagnarsson@gmail.com

To request a copy of the study, please contact:

Daniel Luzer

daniel.luzer@oup.com

Sharing on social media?
Find Oxford Journals online at @OxfordJournals
Precision medicine, which custom-tailors therapies to the needs of individual patients, is becoming more and more important in cancer therapy.
Today, molecular-biological diagnostics can precisely identify alterations in tumor cells.
A major aim of modern cancer therapy is to develop drugs that individually target these altered tumor cells, but do not impact the surrounding healthy cells.
Scientists in the working groups of Professor Roman Thomas and Professor Martin Sos at the Institute of Pathology and the Department of Translational Genomics of Cologne University Hospital have tested the effects of more than 1,500 substances on different kinds of cancer cells.
The testing procedure was carried out in cooperation with the Technical University of Dortmund, the Lead Discovery Center Dortmund, and other international groups.
The researchers were able to identify an inhibitor that specifically limits the growth of cells exhibiting a fusion of the proteins BRD4 und NUT.
The resulting BRD4/NUT fusion genes are characteristic for so-called NMC tumours.
NMC (NUT midline carcinoma) is a rare, aggressive type of cancer affecting the epithelial tissue of mucous membranes in the patient's pharynx and throat.
To date there is no effective therapy for this cancer.
In the study, the scientists were able to shed light on the molecular mechanism responsible for the effectiveness of the inhibitor.
Their insights are an important prerequisite for the development of new and improved therapies for NMC, which is lethal in most cases.
###

Media Enquiries:

Prof. Dr. Martin Sos

Department of Translational Genomics

Cologne University Hospital

+49 221 478 96175

martin.sos@uni-koeln.de

Press und Communication Team:

Jan Voelkel

+49 221 470 2356

j.voelkel@verw.uni-koeln.de

Original publication: Brgelmann J, Dammert MA, Dietlein F, Heuckmann JM, Choidas A, Bhm S, Richters A, Basu D, Tischler V, Lorenz C, Habenberger P, Fang Z, Ortiz-Cuaran S, Leenders F, Eickhoff J, Koch U, Getlik M, Termathe M, Sallouh M, Greff Z, Varga Z, Balke-Want H, French CA, Peifer M, Reinhardt HC, rfi L, Kri G, Ansn S, Heukamp LC, Bu?ttner R, Rauh D, Klebl BM, Thomas RK, Sos ML.
(2017) "Systematic kinase inhibitor profiling identifies CDK9 as a synthetic lethal target in NUT midline carcinoma."
Cell Reports, Vol.
20, Issue 12, 2017
NASA's Aqua satellite peered into Hurricane Lee with infrared light to determine if the storm was intensifying.
Infrared data showed cloud top temperatures were getting colder, indicating stronger storms.
The Atmospheric Infrared Sounder or AIRS instrument aboard NASA's Aqua satellite passed over Hurricane Lee on Sept.25 at 12:35 p.m. EDT (1635 UTC) and analyzed the storm in infrared light.
Infrared light provides scientists with temperature data and that's important when trying to understand how strong storms can be.
The higher the cloud tops, the colder and the stronger they are.
So infrared light as that gathered by the AIRS instrument can identify the strongest sides of a tropical cyclone.
At the time Aqua passed overhead, the eye was clear in infrared imagery, and the northwestern side of the storm had a larger area of thunderstorms than the eastern quadrant, suggestive of southeasterly wind shear.
Cloud top temperatures in thunderstorms around the eyewall as cold as minus 63 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 53 degrees Celsius).
Storms with cloud top temperatures that cold have the capability to produce heavy rainfall.
On Sept. 26, the National Hurricane Center noted that Lee's cloud pattern has continued to become better organized.
The eye has cleared out and has warmed to nearly 10 degrees Celsius, and the eye wall cloud tops have cooled to minus 81.4 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 63 degrees Celsius).
At 5 a.m. EDT/AST (0900 UTC) Sept. 26 the center of Hurricane Lee was located near 30.0 degrees north latitude and 52.5 degrees west longitude.
That's about 745 miles (1,195 km) east of Bermuda

Lee was moving toward the west near 10 mph (17 kph).
Maximum sustained winds are near 100 mph (155 kph) with higher gusts.
Some strengthening is expected over the next 24 hours or so.
The estimated minimum central pressure is 977 millibars.
The National Hurricane Center forecast calls for a turn toward the west-northwest with some decrease in forward speed early Wednesday, Sept. 27, followed by a turn northwestward by Wednesday evening.
Lee is forecast to turn northward and gradually increase in forward speed on Thursday.
For forecast updates on Hurricane Lee, visit: http://www.
gov

More information about AIRS can be found at airs.jpl.nasa.gov

###
Researchers evaluate the effects on the medical students who took part in the study

CANCER is on the rise and the need to be empathetic when giving a patient their diagnosis and throughout treatment is imperative.
Now, a collaborative study, with a Huddersfield professor, has enabled future doctors to experience some of the challenges patients living with skin cancer can face to develop a greater empathy for their patients.
Professor Nigel King is an Associate Dean of Research within the School of Human and Health Sciences and together with experts from Queen's University Belfast and University College Dublin, a study has been published in the British Journal of Dermatology that explores how temporary skin tattoos might influence a medical student's personal understanding of a malignant melanoma diagnosis.
Melanoma or skin cancer is the fifth most common cancer in the UK claiming over 2,500 lives every year.
Over 15,000 patients will be diagnosed with melanoma cancer every year, a diagnosis that can be daunting for a patients and their loved ones.
Medical students from Queen's University Belfast were encouraged to wear a highly realistic temporary tattoo of a malignant melanoma for 24 hours before listening to an audio account of a patient sharing their experience of what it was like to discover a melanoma.
They then recorded their own thoughts and experiences and took part in in depth interviews with experts.
Professor King's role was to contribute his methodological expertise to the design of the study and particularly the analysis of the interview transcripts and audio diaries.
He said this relatively inexpensive simulation undoubtedly encouraged the students to consider the person behind the illness and enabled them to develop a greater empathy.
"For all of the students who took part it was a powerful experience," said Professor King.
"The melanoma temporary tattoo provided a profound experience because one thing you don't often realise until you have melanoma is, compared to other cancers and diseases, there is a physical sign of it.
Meaning if you have it, you are constantly reminded you have got it," he said.
The British Journal of Dermatology said that while nothing can fully simulate the emotional impact of receiving a cancer diagnosis, this has been a novel way to help doctors understand what it feels like to have a visible skin disorder and how this can attract unwanted attention from strangers, leaving people feeling self-conscious.
Professor King and colleagues now hope to repeat the study with other groups such as nursing students to see if it achieves the same degree of positive response.
Exposure to loud noises during common recreational activities is widely cited as a cause of "hidden hearing loss."
A new study of young adults, however, finds that while hearing is temporarily affected after attending a loud event, there is no evidence of auditory nerve injury or permanent hearing difficulties.
The study is the first to look for a causal relationship between recreational noise exposure and auditory function in humans.
Rodent studies have suggested that loud noises can permanently damage nerve and hair cells in the ear, even if there is no permanent change to threshold sensitivity -- that is, is the level below which certain sounds cannot be detected.
Such neural injury is often called hidden hearing loss as it cannot be detected by standard hearing tests, which look for a permanent threshold shift.
These studies raised alarm about potential hidden hearing loss in humans -- and more recently, whether typical recreational noise can cause such damage.
"The rodent studies serve as the basis for concern that adolescents and young adults may be at risk of neural injury from dance parties, listening to music on personal headphones, and other common activities," explains Dr Colleen Le Prell, a Professor of Hearing Science at the University of Texas at Dallas, USA.
"However, the level of noise exposure in these rodent studies was very high.
Later studies with a lower noise exposure showed reduced or no neural injury."
Given the worrying implications of hidden hearing loss caused by recreational noise, Le Prell and her team assessed neural function and hearing performance in young adults before and after attending a loud recreational event.
Different people attended different types of events, which included a concert, a multi-day music festival, a bar with live or electronic music, and a movie.
The team also looked for any relationship between the participants' history of noise exposure in the previous 12 months and their baseline "before" assessments.
The study, published in open-access journal Frontiers in Neuroscience, is the first to prospectively monitor potential hearing change: Previous studies have only examined this retrospectively based on self-reported noise exposure history.
In another first, the participants used a smartphone app to measure the sound level during the recreational event.
The tests included assessments of middle ear, cochlear and auditory nerve function, determination of the hearing threshold level, and a Words-in-Noise test to evaluate how well the participants could understand speech in background noise.
The team did not find any statistically significant relationship between retrospective recreational noise history and neural function.
While a temporary threshold shift was observed within 24 hours of attending the recreational event, the effect was generally small and had disappeared one week later.
Similarly, while Words-in-Noise performance was lower one day after the event, there was no significant effect one week later.
There was also no evidence of neural injury following the recreational event, either within 24 hours of the event or one week later.
"Despite multiple calls for alarm in the media and in the scientific literature, we found no evidence that typical recreational noise exposure is associated with permanent decreased auditory nerve function or poorer understanding of speech when there is background noise," says Dr Le Prell.
This does not mean that all recreational loud noise is safe, however.
Other studies suggest that firearm users, for example, are almost certainly likely to be at risk for neural injuries.
"We do not know where risk begins in humans for acute recreational noise exposure or for acute high-level exposure," says Dr Le Prell.
"We also do not know how, or if, the risk of injury changes with frequent, repeated noise exposure, such as chronic daily exposure in a loud working environment."
She advises that anyone experiencing temporary hearing changes or "ringing" in their ears (tinnitus) should protect their hearing in future loud situations.
The study suggests that hearing-in-noise tests may be more sensitive for detecting hearing loss than the current gold standard of testing for permanent threshold shifts.
"If future studies show that hearing-in-noise is the earliest auditory deficit to emerge following exposure to loud noises, then testing for this instead of threshold shifts may allow earlier detection of noise injury," says Dr Le Prell.
"This is extremely relevant for occupational noise regulations and monitoring.
Hearing-in-noise tests may also be more appropriate for measuring the safety of recreational events, as well as for assessing new otoprotective drugs," she says.
The relationship between teachers and students is a critical factor for academic success.
However, a new study by NYU Steinhardt School of Culture, Education, and Human Development finds that teachers report weaker relationships with children of immigrants and adolescents of color.
"Teachers' relationships are hugely important for all students, but particularly so for groups that are marginalized.
Yet, the students who could most benefit from relationships with their teachers are the ones that have the least access to strong teacher-student relationships," said Hua-Yu Sebastian Cherng, assistant professor of international education at NYU Steinhardt and author of the study, published online in the American Journal of Education.
Since 2014, public school classrooms have reflected a demographic shift in the United States, with the overall number of Latino, African-American, and Asian students surpassing the number of White students, according to the National Center for Education Statistics.
Students of color now make up the majority of students, but inequities between students of different backgrounds have continued to plague the education system.
Existing research highlights the importance of teacher-student relationships on academic indicators such as test scores, classroom engagement, and interest in learning.
Teachers not only play a pivotal role in developing students' knowledge and skills, but can also serve as role models.
But research also presents a mixed view of student-teacher relationships with students of color and immigrant youth.
Though these groups of youth may be especially reliant upon their teachers, many also report discriminatory experiences or few interactions with staff.
In the current study, Cherng studied two aspects of teacher-student relationships: whether teachers form equally strong relationships with students from different backgrounds and whether these relationships shape students' academic expectations for themselves.
Using the Education Longitudinal Study of 2002, a nationally representative sample of high school students and their teachers, Cherng analyzed teacher surveys for English and math high school teachers.
Relationships were measured three ways: how familiar a teacher reported being with a student, whether the teacher perceived a student to be passive or withdrawn, and engagement in conversation with students outside the classroom.
These surveys were linked with academic and demographic data for their students.
For the analysis examining teacher-student personal relationships and later academic outcomes, a measure of student academic expectations was used, which gauged whether a student expected to go to and complete college.
Cherng found that not all groups of students enjoy strong teacher-student relationships; patterns of relationships varied by subject taught, race/ethnicity, and whether students were immigrants, children of immigrants, or third-generation and beyond.
For instance, English teachers reported weaker relationships with Asian American students and math teachers with their Latino students compared to third-generation White students.
"Different patterns in student-teacher relationships among English and math teachers suggest that distinct stereotypes may shape relationships," Cherng said.
In contrast to these patterns of disadvantage, English teachers reported stronger relationships with third-generation Black students compared to third-generation White students.
This may reflect teachers' concerted efforts to close the achievement gap between White and Black students.
The study also highlights the important role of strong teacher-student relationships in fostering student academic expectations: early teacher-student relationships impact later student academic expectations.
In other words, teacher-student relationships can inspire students to have high academic ambitions.
"This study demonstrates that teacher-student relationships are a valuable source of social capital in that they help shape students' academic expectations.
However, these relationships are not a resource that is equally available to all students," Cherng said.
"In contrast to the idea that racial discrimination is an intentional disparagement, the findings may reflect a subtler form of racial discrimination: teachers may be unfamiliar with the lives of all of their students, and this lack of knowledge may hinder relationships."
Cherng notes that the study supports the necessity of rigorous teacher training in cultural awareness in order to overcome biases and improve relationships between teachers and students.
###

About the Steinhardt School of Culture, Education, and Human Development (@nyusteinhardt)

Located in the heart of Greenwich Village, NYU's Steinhardt School of Culture, Education, and Human Development prepares students for careers in the arts, education, health, media, and psychology.
Since its founding in 1890, the Steinhardt School's mission has been to expand human capacity through public service, global collaboration, research, scholarship, and practice.
To learn more about NYU Steinhardt, visit steinhardt.nyu.edu.
EAST LANSING, Mich. - Preschool instructors appear to lack the knowledge, skills and confidence to effectively teach their young students science - a problem that is likely contributing to America's poor global performance in this crucially important subject.
A first-of-its-kind study by Michigan State University researchers found that early childhood educators' self-reported ability and enjoyment was high for literacy, but much lower for science and math.
Further, while 99 percent of preschool teachers engaged in literacy instruction three to four times a week, that figure fell to 75 percent in math and only 42 percent in science.
Only 38 percent of U.S. fourth-graders were proficient in science in 2015, according to a report from the National Assessment of Educational Progress.
"Providing quality early-childhood science education is one way to improve the very low science achievement of U.S. elementary school children," said lead author Hope Gerde, associate professor in MSU's Department of Human Development and Family Studies.
"However, it seems the preschool teachers in our study were more confident of their ability in literacy than in science - likely creating a gap between children's literacy development and science skills."
The study, funded by the National Science Foundation, is published in the journal Early Education and Development.
Gerde and colleagues studied 67 Head Start classrooms for children ages 3-5.
This early childhood period is a time when kids begin developing knowledge and skills for science, she said, adding that preschool children have the capacity to engage in and learn from scientific thinking.
The study is the first to examine preschool teachers' "self-efficacy" - or their belief in their ability and enjoyment for an academic area - in literacy, math and science.
Gerde said preschool teachers may struggle with science due to lack of quality training, preparation or an aversion to science.
Teachers may also feel pressure from policymakers and school administrators to focus on literacy - to the possible exclusion of science.
Importantly, the study found that only teachers with high knowledge and skills for science - not literacy or math - created quality scientific opportunities for students, such as providing science materials and engaging children in science experiences in the classroom.
"If we are to improve U.S. children's science learning," Gerde said, "we must provide quality opportunities, in teacher education programs and professional development offerings, for early childhood teachers to develop knowledge and skills in science."
###

Co-authors are MSU researchers Steven Pierce, Kyungsook Lee and Laurie Van Egeren.
A recent international study indicates that the populations of peatland birds in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia and Latvia have decreased by a third during the past three decades.
The situation in Finland is the most dire, and the species in most trouble is the Finnish ruff, as the population has fallen to approximately 3% of what it was at the beginning of the study period.
"The populations of many common peatland birds, such as the wood sandpiper, the meadow pipit, the yellow wagtail and the common reed bunting have gone down in Finland by a third or more since 1981," states Academy Research Fellow Aleksi Lehikoinen from Luomus, the Finnish Museum of Natural History, part of the University of Helsinki.
The only peatland bird to become more common in all of the countries mentioned is the crane, which has tripled its populations over the three decades.
This is probably due to the reduced hunting of the species in areas where it winters and along its migration route.
Draining and the peat industry to blame

The poor situation of peatland birds can be attributed particularly to the diminishing natural peatlands resulting from decades of wetland draining and peat production.
"In general, peatland birds are much more plentiful on high, open fens and undrained swamps," explains Andreas Lindn, senior researcher from Novia University of Applied Sciences.
In many areas, there have been efforts to transform wetlands into forests through draining.
Finland has the most drained wetlands in all of northern Europe.
Only 14% of Finnish peatlands are protected, most comprehensively in northern Lapland.
Approximately 75% of Estonian peatlands are now protected, and the study suggests that the country's populations of peatland birds are on the rise.
Finland should take responsibility for conservation

According to the researchers, the status of the peatland bird populations can be improved by protecting the existing peatlands and by rehabilitating previously drained fens and marshes.
"Because it has the largest area of wetlands, Finland has the greatest responsibility for maintaining the populations of peatland birds in the European Union.
Consequently, we should place more effort on protecting and rehabilitating our wetlands," states Lehikoinen.
The study's data are based on long-term bird monitoring in northern Europe, and the results were published in the international series Biological Conservation.
###

Link to original publication: Substantial decline of Northern European peatland bird populations: Consequences of drainage

Academy Research Fellow Aleksi Lehikoinen, Finnish Museum of Natural History, aleksi.lehikoinen@helsinki.fi, +358 45 137 5732

Senior Researcher Andreas Lindn, Novia University of Applied Sciences, andreas.linden@novia.fi, +358 50 3446 3999
Tropical Depression Pilar weakened to a remnant low pressure area as it continued to crawl north along the west coast of Mexico.
Satellite data revealed no circulation center.
NOAA's GOES West satellite provided an infrared image of Mexico's west coast on Sept. 26 at 7:45 a.m. (1145 UTC).
The image showed disorganized clouds south of Baja California.
The infrared image makes the clouds appear transparent in the image.
NOAA manages the GOES series of satellites and the NASA/NOAA GOES Project at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt Md.
uses the data to produce images and animations.
On Tues. Sept. 26 at 2:35 a.m. EDT (0635 UTC), the National Hurricane Center noted that the remnants of Tropical Depression Pilar were in the form of a small cluster of weak convection, located about halfway between Mazatlan and Culiacan Mexico near 24 degrees north latitude and 107 degrees west longitude.
NHC noted that a residual, elongated area of low pressure lingering in the wake of Pilar extends from near Cabo San Lucas in Baja California Sur to near Mazatlan Sinaloa.
Winds in the area are estimated near 15 knots or less and seas were between 4 and 6 feet near the mouth of the Gulf of California.
NHC's discussion stated that "low level moisture still pooling along the western slopes of the Sierra Madre Occidental and the coastal zones from Guadalajara to central Sinaloa on Sept. 27 are expected to produce scattered showers and thunderstorms, some yielding very heavy rain."
AMES, Iowa - A new Iowa State University study is one of the first to demonstrate the consequences of allowing children to have a TV or video game system in their bedroom.
Douglas Gentile, lead author and professor of psychology, says the research shows location really does matter.
When there was a TV or video games in the bedroom, children spent less time reading, sleeping or participating in other activities, which had a ripple effect on several outcomes.
As a result, these children did not do as well in school and were at greater risk for obesity and video game addiction, Gentile said.
Researchers were able to track these effects over a period of six months to two years.
The study, published in the journal Developmental Psychology, also found children with bedroom media watched programs and played video games that were more violent, which increased levels of physical aggression.
Gentile says it stands to reason that most parents are not fully aware of what is happening behind closed doors.
"When most children turn on the TV alone in their bedroom, they're probably not watching educational shows or playing educational games," Gentile said.
"Putting a TV in the bedroom gives children 24-hour access and privatizes it in a sense, so as a parent you monitor less and control their use of it less."
The study utilizes data from Gentile's previous studies on screen time and media content.
While some of the results mirror the findings in those studies, Gentile says they found that having bedroom media significantly changes the amount of time children spend with media, changes the content they view, but also changes what children do not do, such as reading.
Digital media changes everything

Several studies have tracked changes in children's screen time.
Gentile says that number continues to trend upward, nearing close to 60 hours a week that children spend in front of screens.
National studies show that more than 40 percent of children, ages 4-6, have a TV in their bedroom, and a substantial majority of children 8 and older have a TV or video game console in their bedrooms.
While this study looked specifically at TVs and video games in the bedroom, Gentile expects the effects to be the same, if not stronger, given the access children now have to digital devices.
He has talked with parents worried about their child's digital media use or how best to set limits.
Their concerns range from children accessing questionable content to responding in the middle of the night to text messages or social media alerts, he said.
It is a challenge Gentile says he too has faced as a parent, but he encourages others to keep media out of their children's bedroom.
It may cause a battle in the short term, but will benefit children in the long term.
"It's a lot easier for parents to never allow a TV in the bedroom than it is to take it out," he said.
"It's a question every parent must face, but there is a simple two-letter answer.
That two-letter answer is tough, but it is worth it."
Indirect, but significant effect

It may be natural for parents to wonder why a TV in the bedroom is any different from any other room in the home.
Gentile says it comes down to ease of access.
There is no direct link between the physical presence of a TV and poor grades.
Rather, bedroom media makes it easier for children to spend more time watching or playing, which displaces other beneficial and healthful activities.
For example, researchers tracked children over a period of 13 and 24 months and found bedroom media (both TV and video games) increased total screen time, which indirectly affected school grades.
The data pointed to one explanation - third through fifth grade students who spent more time watching TV, spent less time reading.
According to the study, increased screen time was also associated with higher body mass index, physical aggression and symptoms of video game addiction.
"We know from decades of research on addiction that the No.
1 predictor of addiction is access.
You can't be addicted to gambling, if there is no place to gamble," Gentile said.
"Access is certainly the gateway to a wide range of effects, both positive and negative."
###

Olivia Berch worked with Gentile on this study as an undergraduate at Iowa State.
Hyekyung Choo, National University of Singapore; Angeline Khoo, Nanyang Technological University; and David Walsh, Mind Positive Parenting, also contributed to the research.
Study confirms that women tend to do more housework than their male partners, irrespective of their age, income or own workloads

Canadian women of all ages still tend to do more household chores than their male partners, no matter how much they work or earn in a job outside the home.
Findings from a study in Springer's journal Sex Roles demonstrate the persistent gendered nature of how housework is divided, says lead author Rebecca Horne of the University of Alberta in Canada.
The research drew on data collected from the Edmonton Transitions Study, which has been tracking the transition of more than 900 Canadians from high school to work, and from adolescence into adulthood.
Horne and her colleagues analysed the questionnaires of participants who had life partners in 1992, 1999 and 2010, when they were 25 (moving into adulthood), 32 (a young adult) and 43 years old (midlife).
The researchers examined how household tasks were divided between individuals and their intimate partners across these three life stages, and how housework was influenced by one's work hours, relative income, marital status and responsibilities towards children.
The study followed a life course theoretical approach.
This perspective emphasizes the salience of social conditions in shaping the way people's lives unfold over time.
It holds that people's behaviours are informed not only by their own biological development, but also by the work and family responsibilities they negotiate with their intimate partners.
Broader social norms that govern appropriate role ordering and duration are also significant.
"Women consistently perform more housework than men do," Horne explains.
"Patterns of housework responsibility between men and women tend to be quite consistent at each life stage despite minor fluctuations in the volume of housework chores."
She says the results further showed that women and the partner with the lowest income tend to be the ones doing more household tasks when a couple is around 25 years old.
Work hours and raising children (for men only) come into play among 32-year olds, reducing housework involvement.
Gender again becomes the biggest predictor of who will do what around the house when couples are in their forties.
Such tasks are then generally done by the woman.
"Overall, time, money, and gender variables seem to be important for explaining the division of household labour, albeit to varying intensities depending on stage in the life course," adds Horne.
Horne hopes the findings will promote greater gender equality on a societal level and help life partners be more aware of the many factors that shape domestic life.
These results can also be used by policymakers and employers to develop or alter laws, policies, and work environments in ways that promote men's involvement in unpaid labour.
Horne further suggests that couples therapists and educators should encourage partners to reflect on where they are in life and the many factors that shape decisions being made to keep a household going.
###

Reference: Horne, R.M.
et al (2017).
Time, Money, or Gender?
Predictors of the Division of Household Labour Across Life Stages, Sex Roles DOI: 10.1007/s11199-017-0832-1
A central aspect of life sciences is to explore the symbiotic cohabitation of animals, plants and humans with their specific bacterial communities.
Scientists refer to the full set of microorganisms living on and inside a host organism as the microbiome.
Over the past years, evidence has accumulated that the composition and balance of this microbiome contributes to the organism's health.
For instance, alterations in the composition of the bacterial community are implicated in the origin of various so-called environmental diseases.
However, it is still largely unknown just how the cooperation between organism and bacteria works at the molecular level and how the microbiome and body exactly act as a functional unit.
An important breakthrough in deciphering these highly complex relationships has now been achieved by a research team from Kiel University's Zoological Institute.
Using the freshwater polyp Hydra as a model organism, the Kiel-based researchers and their international colleagues investigated how the simple nervous system of these animals interacts with the microbiome.
They were able to demonstrate, for the first time, that small molecules secreted by nerve cells help to regulate the composition and colonisation of specific types of beneficial bacteria along the Hydra's body column.
"Up to now, neuronal factors that influence the body's bacterial colonisation were largely unknown.
We have been able to prove that the nervous system plays an important regulatory role here," emphasises Professor Thomas Bosch, evolutionary developmental biologist and spokesperson of the Collaborative Research Centre 1182 "Origin and Function of Metaorganisms", funded by the German Science Foundation (DFG).
The scientists published their new findings in Nature Communications today.
The research team, led by Bosch, use the freshwater polyp Hydra as the model organism to elucidate the fundamental principles of nervous system structure and function.
Hydra represent an evolutionary ancient branch of the animal kingdom; they have a simple body plan with a nerve net of only about 3000 neurons.
Applying modern experimental technology to these organisms that, despite their simplicity, still share a large molecular similarity with the nervous systems of vertebrates, enabled identification of ancient and therefore fundamental principles of nervous system structure and function.
Using this model organism, the researchers from Kiel University addressed the question of how messenger substances produced by the nervous system, known as neuropeptides, control the cooperation and communication between host and microbes.
They collected cellular, molecular and genetic evidence to show that neuropeptides have antibacterial activity which affects both the composition and the spatial distribution of the colonizing microbes.
In order to reveal the connections between neuropeptides and bacterial communities, the Kiel-based researchers first concentrated on the development of the freshwater polyp's nervous system, from the egg stage through to an adult animal.
Cnidarians develop a complete nervous system within about three weeks.
During this developmental time, the bacterial communities covering the animal's surface change radically, until a stable composition of the microbiome finally forms.
Under the influence of the antimicrobial effect of the neuropeptides, the concentration of so-called Gram-positive bacteria, a subgroup of bacteria, decreases sharply over a period of roughly four weeks.
At the end of the maturing process, a typical composition of the microbiome prevails, particularly dominated by Gram-negative Curvibacter bacteria.
Since the neuropeptides are particularly produced in certain areas of the body only, they also control the spatial localisation of the bacteria along the body column.
Thus, in the head region, for example, there is a strong concentration of antimicrobial peptides, resulting in six times fewer Curvibacter bacteria than on the tentacles.
Based on these observations, the scientists concluded that throughout the course of evolution the nervous system also participated in a controlling role for the microbiome, in addition to its sensory and motor tasks.
"The findings are also important in an evolutionary context.
Since the ancestors of these animals have invented the nervous system, it seems that the interaction between the nervous system and the microbiome is an ancient feature of multicellular animals.
Since the simple design of Hydra has great basic and translational relevance and promises to reveal new and unexpected basic features of nervous systems, further research into the interaction between body and bacteria will therefore concentrate more on the neuronal aspects," said Bosch, to summarise the significance of the work.
###

Original publication:

Ren Augustin, Katja Schrder, Andrea P. Murillo Rincn, Sebastian Fraune, Friederike Anton-Erxleben, Ava-Maria Herbst, Jrg Wittlieb, Martin Schwentner, Joachim Grtzinger, Trudy M. Wassenaar, Thomas C.G.
Bosch (2017): "A secreted antibacterial neuropeptide shapes the microbiome of Hydra".
Nature Communications, Published on September 26, 2017, doi:10.1038/s41467-017-00625-1

Contact:

Prof. Thomas Bosch,

Zoological Institute, Kiel University

Tel.
: 0431-880-4169

E-Mail: tbosch@zoologie.uni-kiel.de

More information:

Priority research area "Kiel Life Science", Kiel University http://www.
uni-kiel.
de

Collaborative Research Centre (CRC) 1182 "Origin and Function of Metaorganisms", Kiel University: http://www.
metaorganism-research.
com

Cell and Developmental Biology (Bosch group), Zoological Institute, Kiel University http://www.
bosch.
zoologie.
uni-kiel.
de

Kiel University
A scientist from the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology (MIPT) has proposed a model that can predict the number of key carcinogenic events for each cancer type based on the relationship between morbidity and age.
The results of his study were published in the prestigious journal Scientific Reports.
The progression from one carcinogenesis stage to another is defined by "driver" mutations in crucial genes, which cause the cell to acquire oncogenic properties such as the capacity for accelerated division and apoptosis resistance.
Medical statistics show that oncological morbidity and mortality increase with age because carcinogenesis is driven by the accumulation of several consecutive mutations in the DNA.
At the same time, the incidence rates for at least some subtypes of cancer can not only increase but also decrease with age, and this fact cannot be explained in terms of classical oncology.
Many complicated carcinogenesis models involving a variety of assumptions and parameters have been proposed, but none of them provides a way to accurately predict the number of key mutations in a given type of cancer.
So how can a geneticist determine whether a patient is close to accumulating a critical quantity of mutations and if there is a high risk for them to develop cancer?
Aleksey V. Belikov, a scientist from the MIPT Laboratory of Innovative Medicine and Agrobiotechnology, used the publicly available data on 20 million cancer cases and examined 16 probability distributions, finding that the incidence of 20 most prevalent cancer types in relation to patients' age closely follows the Erlang probability distribution, which is widely used in telecommunications for incoming call simulations.
Notably, it is the only probability distribution that describes the waiting time for several random events, such as DNA mutations.
"A unique feature of the model is that it considers the random nature of mutations and allows to predict the number of key mutations required for the carcinogenesis process," says Belikov.
The proposed theory allows to predict the number of carcinogenesis stages for any subtype of cancer with available statistics on age-dependent incidence.
This method can help scientists to identify the driver mutations associated with different subtypes of cancer.
In the future, it may find utility in clinical practice as well.
For instance, a geneticist will be able to find out a patient's cancer risk by studying the number of driver mutations identified by DNA analysis.
Researchers from Finland and Taiwan have discovered how graphene, a single-atom-thin layer of carbon, can be forged into three-dimensional objects by using laser light.
A striking illustration was provided when the researchers fabricated a pyramid with a height of 60 nm, which is about 200 times larger than the thickness of a graphene sheet.
The pyramid was so small that it would easily fit on a single strand of hair.
The research was supported by the Academy of Finland and the Ministry of Science and Technology of the Republic of China.
Graphene is a close relative to graphite, which consists of millions of layers of graphene and can be found in common pencil tips.
After graphene was first isolated in 2004, researchers have learned to routinely produce and handle it.
Graphene can be used to make electronic and optoelectronic devices, such as transistors, photodetectors and sensors.
In future, we will probably see an increasing number of products containing graphene.
"We call this technique optical forging, since the process resembles forging metals into 3D shapes with a hammer.
In our case, a laser beam is the hammer that forges graphene into 3D shapes," explains Professor Mika Pettersson, who led the experimental team at the Nanoscience Center of the University of Jyvskyl, Finland.
"The beauty of the technique is that it's fast and easy to use; it doesn't require any additional chemicals or processing.
Despite the simplicity of the technique, we were very surprised initially when we observed that the laser beam induced such substantial changes on graphene.
It took a while to understand what was happening."
"At first, we were flabbergasted.
The experimental data simply made no sense," says Dr Pekka Koskinen, who was responsible for the theory.
"But gradually, by close interplay between experiments and computer simulations, the actuality of 3D shapes and their formation mechanism started to become clear."
"When we first examined the irradiated graphene, we were expecting to find traces of chemical species incorporated into the graphene, but we couldn't find any.
After some more careful inspections, we concluded that it must be purely structural defects, rather than chemical doping, that are responsible for such dramatic changes on graphene," explains Associate Professor Wei Yen Woon from Taiwan, who led the experimental group that carried out X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy at the synchrotron facility.
The novel 3D graphene is stable and it has electronic and optical properties that differ from normal 2D graphene.
Optically forged graphene can help in fabricating 3D architectures for graphene-based devices.
###

The research was carried out at the Nanoscience Center (NSC) of the University of Jyvskyl, the National Central University of Taiwan and the National Synchrotron Radiation Research Center in Taiwan.
Inquiries

Professor Mika Pettersson, tel.
+358 50 310 9969, mika.j.pettersson@jyu.fi

Associate Professor Wei Yen Woon, tel.
+886 927 374 826, wywoon@phy.ncu.edu.tw

Reference

Andreas Johansson, Pasi Myllyperki, Pekka Koskinen, Jukka Aumanen, Juha Tapio Koivistoinen, Hung-Chieh Tsai, Chia-Hao Chen, Lo-Yueh Chang, Vesa-Matti Hiltunen, Jyrki Manninen, Wei-Yen Woon, and Mika Pettersson, Optical Forging of Graphene into Three-Dimensional Shapes.
Nano Lett., DOI: 10.1021/acs.nanolett.7b03530 http://pubs.
org/ doi/ 10.
1021/ acs.
nanolett.
7b03530

Photo: A pyramid made from graphene.
A similar structure was made experimentally by using laser irradiation in a process called 'optical forging'.
Press contact:

Academy of Finland Communications

Communications Specialist Leena Vhkyl

tel.
+358 295 335 139

firstname.lastname(at)aka.fi
A recent study finds that older drivers showed adaptive responses according to the amount of traffic in a driving scene when identifying road hazards.
Although younger drivers are faster and more accurate at identifying driving hazards than older drivers, older drivers were capable of adapting their response criteria to help them identify road hazards when the amount of traffic in a driving scene increased.
"This work shows that older adults are still adaptive, displaying mental flexibility in responding to changes in their driving environment," says Jing Feng, an assistant professor of psychology at North Carolina State University and lead author of a paper on the work.
For this study, researchers developed a program called the Driver Aware Task, which allows scientists to study the attention of drivers using driving images.
The Driver Aware Task was used with 16 younger adults (ages 21-30) and 21 older adults (ages 65-79).
Using the Driver Aware Task, researchers compared how sensitive younger and older drivers are to hazards in driving images, as well as their tendency to miss hazards or have false alarms.
Younger drivers showed no difference between the low- and high-traffic situations.
However, older drivers shifted the criteria they used to identify potential hazards.
Older drivers were more likely to commit false alarms - reporting a hazard when the hazard was absent - in high-traffic situations.
This increase in false alarms is likely because older adults modified the criteria so they were less likely to miss road hazards.
"Older adults are adapting to changes in their environment, whereas younger adults are not - possibly because they don't have to," says HeeSun Choi, a former Ph.D. student at NC State and a co-author on the paper.
"In other words, there is an attempt by older drivers to compensate for age-related change.
This flexibility is a good thing.
For example, it means there is potential for training that could help older adults adapt to changing driving conditions."
###

The paper, "Adaptive Response Criteria in Road Hazard Detection Among Older Drivers," is published in the journal Traffic Injury Prevention.
The paper was co-authored by Fergus Craik, Brian Levine, Sylvain Moreno and Gary Naglie of the Rotman Research Institute; and Motao Zhu of the Research Institute at Nationwide Children's Hospital.
In earlier research, Dr. Wangs team discovered an emu-like theropod called Limusaurus that began life as a baby with teeth, but lost them as it grew older and morphed into an adult with a beak.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

For their most recent paper, he and his colleagues examined more dinosaur jaw fossils and found two other theropods that underwent transitions similar to Limusaurus: an early Cretaceous bird called Sapeornis, which resembled modern birds, and a small caenagnathid oviraptorosaur, which resembled a velociraptor but with a beak.
This demonstrates an evolutionary process of the beak for the first time, said Dr. Wang.
All three theropods had beaks but with vestigial, or functionless, tooth sockets.
Photo

Based on these three dinosaurs, we now have evidence for three distinctly different lineages that lose their teeth during postnatal development to have a beak, said Josef Stiegler, a doctoral candidate at the George Washington University in D.C.
He added, that the findings suggest there may be more examples in the fossil record.
After collecting the fossil evidence, the team sought further support for their hypothesis that the processes of teeth loss and beak development were connected.
So they performed a comparative and statistical analysis of thousands of modern vertebrates to understand the shared characteristics of animals that develop beaks.
They found that beaked animals tended to be born from eggs laid on land and from embryos that had a structure on the tip of their snouts known as a caruncle.
The facial structure was made of keratin, the substance found in fingernails, and was used to break through the egg before falling off shortly after.
Beaked groups like birds and turtles have caruncles, but snakes and nearly all lizards do not.
Mr. Stiegler linked their analysis to what they found in the fossil record.
He said the transition they saw in the jaws of the Limusaurus  where hatchlings and juveniles lose their teeth as they became adults  may have been how the change from toothy dinosaur to beaked bird began.
More Reporting on Paleontology

But as evolution progressed, we hypothesized that that transition happened earlier and earlier in development until it was happening only in the embryo, said Mr. Stiegler.
Their comparative and statistical analysis supported the hypothesis, he said.
The team also suggested that a protein called bone morphogenetic protein 4, or BMP4, may simultaneously stop teeth from growing in embryos and stimulate the development of a beak.
In the developing embryo, the beak originates near the caruncle and then gradually expands backward.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But Mr. Stiegler cautions that BMP4 is likely not the only factor behind the mechanism, and that additional research is needed to determine the root cause.
Stephen Brusatte, a paleontologist from the University of Edinburgh who reviewed the paper, said that the study was a great example of how fossils and genetics can be used together to understand how the birds we know today evolved from ferocious dinosaurs.
Beaks actually cause teeth to disappear, he said.
This simple fact helped shape one of the major transitions in the history of evolution.
As it slingshotted past Earth at 19,000 miles per hour on its journey to an asteroid, NASAs Osiris-Rex spacecraft took a moment to admire the view  from 106,000 miles away.
This composite image was taken on Friday by an onboard camera as the spacecraft flew past the planet.
It shows the deep blue of the Pacific Ocean flanked by Australia in the lower left and the southwestern United States and Baja California in the upper right.
At the top of the image there are several black vertical streaks, the result of the cameras short exposure times.
According to NASA, the cameras rapid exposures  less than three-milliseconds each  are necessary when taking a picture of something as bright as our blue planet, but are not required for taking images of the spacecrafts dark primary target: the asteroid Bennu.
Video

Osiris-Rex is on a mission to collect samples from Bennu and bring them back to Earth.
Launched in September 2016, the probe made a quick circle around the sun.
To get on the right trajectory for traveling toward the asteroid, it needed to fling past Earth last week.
The flyby tilted the spacecraft upward by about six degrees, which would put it in the correct position to rendezvous with Bennu in August 2018.
The carbon-rich asteroid is like a time capsule from more than 4.5 billion years ago when the solar system formed.
Scientists hope that the samples that Osiris-Rex collects and brings to Earth in 2023 will contain clues from the earliest history of our stellar neighborhood.
Rebirth

Photo

In the 1970s, Mr. Gowin held an old cigar box full of dead insects his children had collected.
He sprinkled them atop the crumbling pages of a salvaged book.
He took a photograph and set it aside.
It was nothing in a way, he said in an interview, a book you can no longer read and insects that can no longer fly.
His photography remained focused on other subjects, ranging from family to the assorted effects of human activity on the planet.
In 1997, Mr. Gowin began shooting a series of aerial photographs of the Nevada Test Site, where the United States government detonated more than 1,000 nuclear bombs from 1951 to 1992.
Before long, Mr. Gowin welcomed a change from a landscape he found tragic.
He accepted a friends invitation to Ecuador, hoping to learn about ecology and finally study insects, particularly moths.
This must be tragic too, he recalled, but its a new tragedy Id like to learn about.
Five by five

Photo

Five years later, Mr. Gowin created a poster of 25 living specimens arranged in a grid for the lobby of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama.
The moths were so varied that even the woman who framed the poster was surprised that the winged models all hailed from the same Panama she did.
Mr. Gowin eventually made 50 more of these indexes of moths.
Many subjects in the portraits are uncommon, and at least one is so rarely seen that it only existed as a painting in a museum drawer.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I wanted to just be astounded by what showed up, he said.
And in that way, you can create your own stories about the moths on each page, and allow it to develop and evolve as you turn to the next.
Emerging from the forest

Photo

Mr. Gowins notion of moths evolved with unexpected encounters in preserved meccas of biodiversity in Latin America.
Moths became real beauty, here on Earth now, and of course, impossible without the forest, he writes.
Moths are most active three days before a new moon, and when it rains.
Its possible that the humidity better diffuses important pheromones, which may be more apparent the darker it is, said Christopher Grinter, an entomology collection manager at The California Academy of Sciences.
During such nights, Mr. Gowin learned to embrace the moths mysterious universe, and it was during these dark cycles of the moon that he was able to create each index.
Show me your art, and Ill show you mine

Photo

Early on, Mr. Gowin noticed that the moths beauty became more apparent when photographed against remnants of our human world, like painted pieces of wood.
He started carrying prints to use as backdrops, including works by Edgar Degas, Henri Matisse and William Blake.
Juxtaposing biological specimens with the outputs of human imagination created endless possibilities.
By the books end, Mr. Gowin said youve only sampled a portion of natures inexhaustible beauty.
Look, but dont touch
Mr. Vaughans sentiment is echoed by a cadre of researchers who place mantises in a class of their own among the swarming Class Insecta, and who are discovering a range of skills and predilections that make mantises act like aspiring vertebrates.
Praying mantises are the only insects able to swivel their heads and stare at you.
Those piercing eyes are much like yours, equipped with 3-D vision and a fovea  a centralized concentration of light receptors  the better to focus and track.
A mantis can jump as unerringly as a cat, controlling its trajectory through an intricate series of twists and turns distributed across its legs and body, all to ensure a flawless landing on a ridiculously iffy target nearly every time.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The mantis appetite likewise turns out to leap and bound, and with scant regard for food-chain decorum.
By the standard alimentary sequence, insects feed on plants or one another, and then birds hunt down insects.
But just as there are carnivorous plants like the Venus flytrap, mantises prey on hummingbirds and other small-to-middling birds more often than most people realize.
James V. Remsen of the Museum of Natural Science at Louisiana State University and his colleagues documented 147 cases of mantis-on-bird predation in 13 countries representing all continents but Antarctica  not surprising, Dr. Remsen said in an interview, since there are no mantises on Antarctica.
Hummingbirds were the most common target, but mantises also went after warblers, sunbirds, honeyeaters, flycatchers, vireos and European robins.
Large species like the Chinese mantis, which grows to four inches in length, were the most avid avivores, and females were responsible for virtually all the bird-killing observed worldwide.
In two reported cases, females feasted on birds while copulating with males.
Sometimes the mantises would tuck in through the birds breastbone, but more often they went for the head, Dr. Remsen said.
They bite in and eat the brains, he said, which might imply this is something theyre professionals at.
Some mantises in North America now seem to view hummingbird feeders as happy hunting grounds.
Kris Okamoto, a retired nurse in San Juan Capistrano, Calif., recently came running when the young son of her house painter cried out that a praying mantis had snatched a hummingbird from her feeder.
Seeing that the bird was already dead, its skull pierced, Ms. Okamoto and the boy settled down and watched the mantis eat its fill of bird brain.
When the postprandial mantis crept back up the feeder, Ms. Okamoto gently pushed it off with a stick.
Not good enough.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It started crawling back toward the feeder, she said.
So we took it away completely and put it over the fence.
Researchers emphasize that bird predation by mantises remains rare and is insignificant compared to the carnage linked to, say, free-roaming cats.
Nevertheless, that the insects have learned to seek out bird feeders for a meal signifies another step in cognition, Dr. Remsen said.
Were lucky praying mantises arent our size.
A Certain Personality

Hunting is a professional trademark of the mantid order: the 2,500 known species are all predators, usually of insects and other small invertebrates.
Some mantises chase down their prey, but many are consummate ambush artists, waiting with Zen stillness in the grass or among flowers for the right moment to strike.
Their closest relatives are the cockroaches, from which they diverged about 250 million years ago, said Gavin J. Svenson, curator of invertebrate zoology at the Cleveland Museum of Natural History and a leading authority on praying mantises.
The family resemblance can still be seen in the long, slender antennae and the triangular, movie-alien shape of the head, among other features.
But praying mantises rise above the flattened scuttling posture that makes cockroaches look so  verminy.
Praying mantises are unusually charismatic, said William D. Brown, who studies them at the State University of New York at Fredonia.
Those large eyes, the way they turn to look at you, gives them a certain personality that most insects lack, he added.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Molecular and evolutionary studies suggest that mantises diversified in parallel with angiosperms  not because they had anything to do with flowering plants directly, but in part to more effectively prey on the insects that ate or pollinated the plants.
Some mantises evolved to look like showy blossoms, a cancan of deadly come-ons.
Those show-offs dont like playing wallflower.
The orchid mantises of Asia, for example, generally avoid lingering around the flowers they imitate, and instead seek out patches of green vegetation.
They themselves become the flower, Dr. Svenson said.
Theyre a conspicuous beacon for pollinating insects.
The bigger the floral pollinators, the bulkier grew their predatory mantises, the better to catch, control and consume even well-armed bumblebees and wasps.
Other mantises resemble gnarled twigs, scraps of tree bark or decomposing leaves, blending in beautifully with forest underbrush, tree trunk or canopy, a cryptic approach to fool would-be prey and their own predators alike.
The smallest mantises flit around in the leaf litter of Australia and are no bigger than your pinkie nail, Dr. Svenson said.
Yet the stick-mimicking mantises of Africa can be nearly as long as your forearm.
These difficulties make cacao ever less appealing to producers; yields and profits are low, and the average cacao farmer is aging.
The next generation seems to be abandoning the family business.
Yet demand for chocolate is rising, especially as gargantuan markets like China and India indulge a taste for what used to be a treat primarily for American and European consumers.
A chocolate shortage may be on the horizon.
That is where Dr. Phillips-Moras project comes in.
The genetic diversity of cacao, on full display in the International Cacao Collection at C.A.T.I.E., may avert a chocolate crisis.
A Hybrid Solution

In the early 1980s, Dr. Phillips-Mora worked to identify the most naturally tolerant and productive cacao trees, then painstakingly hybridized the candidates to create novel varieties.
Breeding hybrid cacao clones is a lengthy process, and experts worldwide have largely failed in this endeavor.
But in 2006, Dr. Phillips-Mora released his first batch of hybrid cacao varieties.
Photo

Photo

In terms of disease resistance and yield, the differences were astonishing.
Dr. Phillips-Moras six hybrids produce on average about three times more cacao than standard varieties; under ideal conditions, the most prolific hybrids can produce six times more cacao.
After an 11-year trial, a hybrid called C.A.T.I.E.-R6 experienced a 5 percent frosty pod rot infection rate, compared to 75 percent infection for a control variety.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Our goal is not just to produce cacao, Dr. Phillips-Mora said.
Its also to give the basic living conditions to the farmers.
Most cacao farmers are very poor, because the system is based on material that doesnt have good yielding capacity.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Trees that buck this trend could make the family business look more enticing to the next generation of cacao growers.
The C.A.T.I.E.
hybrids are now growing in all Central American countries, as well as in Mexico and Brazil.
Agricultural yield and disease resistance may benefit farmers, but a cacao crop is worthless if it produces bland or foul-tasting chocolate.
Chocolate is the epitome of gastronomic hedonism.
But unlike nearly every other modern effort to increase crop yields, Dr. Phillips-Moras breeding program incorporates fine flavor as a prerequisite.
Cacao varieties that dont impress expert palates are discarded, no matter how well they grow.
Photo

The result of this protocol is that unlike many other crops favored for agronomics  the Red Delicious apple, the Cavendish banana  C.A.T.I.E.s cacao actually tastes good.
Chocolate makers are beginning to roast and package Dr. Phillips-Moras varieties.
Dandelion Chocolate, based in San Francisco, recently released a bar made from a mix of all six C.A.T.I.E.
hybrids.
I think honestly its going to be one of our most popular bars, said Greg DAlesandre, who heads cacao sourcing at Dandelion.
It has this nice balance of chocolaty and caramel notes, but it keeps it very accessible.
Dr. Phillips-Moras hybrid cacao varieties do not offer a perfect solution to all the crops challenges.
They cannot all self-pollinate, and some of the beans are small; they havent been properly tested in Africa or Asia, and they are not yet resistant to all the pathogens that afflict cacao globally.
Field trials are nearing completion on a new batch of clones bred to address some of these issues.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Moreover, the current roster of C.A.T.I.E.
clones were bred in response to known cacao production threats; the future will present new demands.
Pathogens evolve.
Unstable political situations in the developing world can affect agriculture.
Climate change will alter landscapes in unpredictable ways.
The solution is not to replace all cacao with the six available C.A.T.I.E.
varieties, but to be able to continue to diversify the cacao materials growing worldwide.
Like the Svalbard Global Seed Vault, the International Cacao Collection is a contingency against future disasters of unknown character.
Whatever fungal mutation may arise, wherever drought may strike, however chocolate tastes may change  there will likely be cacao genes somewhere in the collection that can form the basis of new hybrids to meet future challenges.
Photo

Still, Dr. Phillips-Mora worries about the future.
Though he works with deep-pocketed companies like Mars, Nestl and Hershey, the funds he receives are generally earmarked for specific research projects rather than for the maintenance of the collection and program for the future.
He estimates that he receives less than 5 percent of the funds necessary for proper upkeep of the collection each year.
So although Dr. Phillips-Mora retired three years ago, he plans to keep working until the solvency of the collection is ensured.
I will be very happy when I leave this institution to know that the collection will be protected financially, he said.
Its a treasure for everybody, for all the cocoa lovers.
Photo

One year after giant pandas graduated from endangered to vulnerable, a welcome designation after 28 years, Chinese scientists have sobering news: The animals natural habitat in China is in serious danger.
In a study published in Nature Ecology & Evolution on Monday, researchers report that suitable panda habitats have significantly and steadily declined since 1990, the year the International Union for the Conservation of Nature first classified the animals as endangered.
That could make any gain in Chinas wild panda population a short-lived conservation victory.
Logging, human encroachment, road construction and agriculture have conspired to divide panda habitats into tiny sections, a process known as fragmentation, the study said.
Photo

Ouyang Zhiyun, a professor of environmental science at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, and his colleagues studied 40 years of satellite data to reach their conclusions, and are urging the Chinese government to take specific steps to restore panda-friendly environments.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Giant pandas are a national icon of China, the only place in the world where they live outside of captivity.
Years of Chinese government efforts to reverse their dwindling numbers, such as the restoration of bamboo forests and establishment of national habitat reserves, helped bring the animals back from the brink.
They were declared no longer endangered in September 2016 after population estimates reached 1,864  not counting cubs.
Thats up from a low of about 1,200 in the 1980s.
Alexandra Horowitz, a psychologist at Barnard College who studies the behavior of dogs and has written several books about them, decided to give dogs a chance at showing self-recognition on their own, smelly terms.
In a recent study, she concludes that they do recognize the smell of their own urine.
While some researchers find the study intriguing, the scientist who first developed that mirror mark test doesnt think the evidence supports her conclusion.
Still, even the idea of a smell mirror is mind (nose?)
boggling.
I had always flirted with the idea in my head that there should be an olfactory mirror, Dr. Horowitz said, acknowledging that it could be horrifying for humans.
Marc Bekoff, a biologist and animal behavior specialist at the University of Colorado, Boulder, broke the ice, or actually the snow, in this kind of research around 20 years ago with what has become known as the yellow snow study.
He found that his dog, Jethro, recognized his own scent.
The evidence was that Jethro was more interested in snow marked by another dogs urine than in snow marked by his own, even if it had been surreptitiously moved  by Dr. Bekoff.
The research had its down side.
People who saw me move the pee around thought I was weird, and someone wrote a letter to the editor of the local paper that questioned what he was doing, he said in an email.
Dr. Horowitz took the testing a bit further, adding something like the mark on a chimps face: she set up dishes with different smells.
More Reporting on Dogs

A dogs own urine.
An unfamiliar dogs urine.
A dogs own urine along with another scent.
And, in some control tests, no urine and just the unfamiliar added scent.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

She tested 36 pet dogs to see how long they spent with the different scents.
In many behavior tests, the time spent on a scent or a sight is taken as evidence of interest.
As she reported in Behavioral Processes, the dogs were least interested in their own urine, somewhat interested in another dogs urine, and most interested in their own altered urine.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
What that means, of course, is a matter for discussion.
She says it shows that the dogs recognize their own scent, finding it less interesting unless it has been messed with.
I dont think its precisely parallel to the mirror mark test, Dr. Horowitz said.
In an odor test, you cant use the mirror to restore what you think you should look like.
But, she said, her test and the mirror tests all show that theres this selective sensory investigation of something that comes from yourself, but is changed.
The scientist who developed the mirror mark test, Gordon Gallup, disagrees.
I dont think the results support the conclusions, he said.
He defines the self-awareness assessed in the mirror mark test as the ability to become the object of your own attention.
If you present a familiar odor and a modified version of that familiar odor, he said, that will increase a dogs attention.
The same would happen when a dog is presented with the odor of the owner who lives in the same house.
A definitive test would need to have a component in which the animal identifies the source and refers to it, the way chimpanzees point to the mark on their own faces.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Dr. Gallup also questions the tests of dolphins.
They twist their body around to look at a mark, but cant point to it as chimpanzees and other apes and human children do.
Laurie Santos, director of the Canine Cognition Center at Yale, said the study was a really important innovation.
She said that by using a mirror test based on smell, Dr. Horowitz was able to observe cognitive capacities that we didnt realize dogs had.
Because the mirror mark test depends on visual ability, many researchers, including Dr. Gallup, have been interested in extending testing to other senses.
Frans de Waal, a primatologist at Emory University, said by email, We need to move away from the mark test as sole source of information.
My view is that all animals have some level of self-awareness, they need to, and that the mirror mark test taps into a special kind, perhaps a rare kind, but we need more ways of testing.
Dr. Horowitz plans further tests, including using the scent of familiar dogs and modifications to that scent.
The testing methods may vary, but one thing is likely: There will be urine.
Africa proved a bigger challenge.
There were fewer skeletons in museums, and most searches for genetic material failed.
The environment was partly to blame: DNA is more likely to survive in colder places.
Its been mad, watching all the advances in what we understand about European prehistory, said Jessica C. Thompson, an archaeologist at Emory University who does field work in Malawi.
Dr. Thompson was heartened by the discovery of ancient DNA in Ethiopia in 2015.
Those scientists succeeded for two reasons: The skeleton they discovered had been lying for thousands of years in a cool cave in the Ethiopian highlands, and the researchers developed new technological methods increasing the odds of finding even tiny bits of DNA.
More recently, Dr. Thompson teamed up with experts in ancient DNA and began searching for skeletons in Malawi.
Much of the country comprises tropical lowlands, but it also includes high-elevation plateaus where nighttime temperatures can plunge below freezing.
Eventually she and her colleagues discovered DNA-bearing skeletons as old as 6,000 years in caves in the highlands.
Other bones were discovered by archaeologists working in African countries, as well as in museum collections.
David Reich, a geneticist at Harvard Medical School and a co-author of the new study, and his colleagues analyzed DNA from 16 of these fossils, along with the one previously found in Ethiopia, comparing the genetic material to that of living people throughout Africa as well as on other continents.
This analysis allowed them to determine how living Africans descended from ancient populations, which are older in Africa than anywhere else on Earth.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Africa is now going to be fully included in the ancient genomics revolution, Dr. Reich said.
Were going to be able to do a lot of things in Africa that weve been able to do in Europe and elsewhere.
Africa is where our species evolved at least 300,000 years ago.
Previous genetic analysis of living Africans had suggested that their ancestors began splitting into distinct groups over 200,000 years ago.
Roughly 70,000 years ago some Africans moved out of Africa, becoming the ancestors of non-Africans.
In earlier studies, researchers had concluded that the hunter-gatherers who live today in the Kalahari Desert and other parts of southern Africa descend from the branch believed to be the first to have divided from other Africans.
But the new study suggests that there may be even older branches in the tree.
Something more complicated is going on, Dr. Reich said.
Dr. Reich and his colleagues found that some people in West Africa share a unique collection of genetic variants that suggest an even deeper ancestry, raising the possibility that an earlier population of humans in West Africa diverged from rest.
Thats quite a big new idea, Dr. Busby said.
The new study also sheds light on exactly which Africans spread to other continents.
The 4,500-year-old Ethiopian man discovered in 2015 had DNA linking him to non-Africans.
Today, only a single, small population of living Africans shares the same genetic link: Tanzanian hunter-gatherers called the Hadza.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Theyre the group of living Africans most closely related to non-Africans, Dr. Reich said.
Once humans expanded out of Africa, there was little or no flow of genes between Africans and non-Africans for tens of thousands of years, the new study indicates.
But Dr. Reich and his colleagues discovered that a 3,100-year-old girl in Tanzania was profoundly different from the older East Africans.
A third of her ancestry could be traced to early farmers in the Near East.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Previous studies of living East Africans had hinted at some Near Eastern ancestry.
But the new analysis shows that people from the Near East spread into East Africa at least 3,100 years ago.
This puts a time stamp on this connection, said Pontus Skoglund, a postdoctoral researcher in Dr. Reichs lab and co-author of the new study.
Near Eastern genes were also found in a skeleton from South Africa about 1,200 years old; according to the researchers, some living South Africans carry this DNA today.
In all, these genetic patterns suggest that early farmers or herders from the Near East swept down through Egypt into East Africa several thousand years ago.
They then kept expanding over the centuries until their descendants reached the southern edge of the continent.
Around the same time, another expansion driven by agriculture was taking place in West Africa.
A people known as the Bantu spread from the region around present-day Cameroon and Nigeria.
They left a trail of distinctive iron tools that archaeologists have used to trace their migration into southern and eastern Africa about 2,000 years ago.
Archaeologists have studied this expansion for decades to learn what happened as the Bantu arrived in other parts of the continent.
The new genetic findings suggest that in some places, they may have pushed out the hunter-gatherers.
Up until 2,000 years ago, Dr. Thompson and her colleagues found, people in Malawi belonged to the same ancestral group as hunter-gatherers in southern Africa.
This was a hugely widespread population, she said.
But something happened: Living Malawians have no genetic connection to those who lived there before.
These ancient people must have disappeared virtually without descendants in Malawi.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its possible, Dr. Thompson said, that Bantu farmers drove hunter-gatherers out of places like Malawi.
The surviving hunter-gatherers ended up in deserts and other places that werent good for crops and livestock.
In East Africa, the transition may not have been so stark.
There, modern people can trace much of their ancestry to the Bantu, suggesting a blending of populations.
But some people also inherited a mix of other ancestries, including genes from the Near East and some from the ancient East African hunter-gatherers.
Dr. Thompson is now digging into archaeological sites for evidence of the Bantu arrival in Malawi, looking for tools, bones and perhaps even more DNA.
We want to see if we can catch the timing of that transition and see if there was trade between the groups, or if the whole area was taken over, she said.
Ancient DNA in skeletons from western Africa would be just as valuable; it may hold profound secrets about the early history of our species.
But it wont be easy to find: The early archaeological record there is sparse, and there are few cold caves to search.
It is the major gap in our ancient DNA coverage, Dr. Skoglund said.
On their way over, they ran into Ms. Bedbrook and excitedly relayed their plan.
Theres no way these jellyfish sleep, she said, before joining them.
Photo

In the darkened lab, they observed a tankful of jellyfish pulsing infrequently and staying still for long periods of time  jellyfish that looked, in other words, like they were sleeping.
Ms. Bedbrook started to believe they were onto something.
To prove that jellyfish sleep, the students had to demonstrate that they fulfill three behavioral criteria.
First, the animals must undergo a period of diminished activity, but they must also be able to be aroused from this state, to distinguish sleep from other states, like comas.
Over six days and nights, the researchers monitored 23 jellyfish, which pulsed about 30 percent less at night than during the day.
If fed or poked in the middle of the night, the jellyfish would temporarily stir.
Next, the animals must exhibit decreased responsiveness to stimuli while sleeping.
Upside-down jellyfish get their name from the fact that they sit upside-down on the seafloor  they dont like to be suspended in water.
To test their responsiveness, the scientists placed the jellyfish in little cubbies with removable bottoms that were elevated within the tank.
When the researchers pulled the cubby bottoms out during the day, the creatures would immediately swim to the bottom of the tank.
At night, however, they would sluggishly float around at first.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Last, the animals must show an increased need for sleep if they are kept from it, so the biologists pulsed water through the jellyfishs tank every 20 minutes at night to prevent the creatures from sleeping continuously.
The following day and night, the jellyfish exhibited much lower levels of activity than normal, suggesting sleep deprivation.
As a bonus, the researchers also showed that jellyfish get sleepy when exposed to melatonin, just as humans do  a hint that their underlying sleep mechanism may be similar to ours.
Together, these experiments do a good job of demonstrating that jellyfish fulfill the most fundamental criteria for sleep, William Joiner, a sleep researcher at the University of California, San Diego, said in an email.
The study also provides new fodder for thinking about the origins and functions of sleep, both of which are still unknown, said Dr. Joiner, who was not involved in the study.
Sleep is often associated with having a brain because the behavior seems to be required for memory and learning, and because shared genes and mechanisms for sleep have been identified in all sorts of animals with brains, from worms and flies to mice and humans.
But what weve found, at least in this jellyfish, is you dont need a brain to sleep, Mr. Abrams said.
She initially lauded automakers for supporting an effort, started by President Obama in 2009, to harmonize a mishmash of greenhouse gas emissions and fuel economy standards set by the E.P.A., the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and CARB.
Having taken almost $80 billion in bailout money, General Motors and Chrysler, especially, were in no position to resist.
Still, the automakers soon balked at the ambitious pace of fuel efficiency improvements under the program, which requires automakers to progressively raise the fuel economy of their cars to an average of 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025, nearly double the average in 2012.
That comes to about 36 miles per gallon in real-world driving.
That aggressive target would compel automakers to speed the development of hybrid and electric cars, and to improve the fuel efficiency of their conventional fleets.
Automakers also argued that meeting that target would be prohibitively costly, forcing them to raise car prices or to make more battery-powered vehicles than Americans want to buy.
In a compromise, the automakers agreed to the program, provided that the standards for the later years  2022-25  would be subject to a midterm review.
That review was in full swing when Mr. Trump won the presidency in late 2016.
Just a day after his electoral victory, the Auto Alliance reached out to the president-elect, urging him to rework the standards, calling them a substantial challenge for the auto industry.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In a similarly swift maneuver, the Obama administration cut short the review and finalized the rules, calling them feasible, practical and appropriate, just before leaving office.
The automakers doubled down.
In a Feb. 21 letter, the auto industry alliance implored Mr. Pruitt, the E.P.A.
head, to overturn President Obamas 11th-hour decision.
The standards, the alliance argued, threaten to depress an industry that can ill afford spiraling regulatory costs.
The E.P.A.
has reversed President Obamas decision.
Last month, the agency officially called for comments on standards for model years 2021-25, widening the reviews scope.
The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, which focuses mostly on auto safety, not emissions, is expected to lead the review.
Photo

Were going to work on the CAFE standards so you can make cars in America again, Mr. Trump said in a speech in Detroit this year, referring to the Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards, which were first put in place in 1975.
For a meaningful reprieve, however, automakers need Ms. Nichols on board.
If CARB does not sign onto the reopened review, the automakers face the prospect of separate rules for California and its follower states  a coalition that covers more than 130 million residents and more than a third of the vehicle market in the United States.
Ms. Nichols is not budging.
At the first public hearing on the reopened midterm review last week, CARBs emissions compliance chief, Annette Hebert, threatened to abandon the review if the E.P.A.
took steps to weaken the emissions standards.
Should the agency try to curtail Californias ability to set its own rules  by challenging its Clean Air Act waiver, for example  the fight will more than likely end in court, said Kevin Poloncarz, a San Francisco lawyer focusing on air and climate change law.
Pulling that waiver would be like declaring an all-out war on California, he said.
Accusations of Overreach

Even in California, some critics challenge the expansive powers of a board of unelected officials with the authority to set environmental policy.
All but two of the boards 14 voting members are appointed by the governor, and today include a doctor, an almond farmer and a paint company executive.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Over the years, CARB has expanded its reach, regulating products as diverse as lawn mowers and bulldozers, air fresheners, paint thinners and even hair and bug spray.
It has sent inspectors to Tokyo and Stuttgart, Germany, to monitor the testing of cars manufactured overseas.
And it oversees a system of air-quality management districts across California that issue and enforce their own local regulations.
Photo

WASHINGTON  The Environmental Protection Agency has signed a contract for nearly $25,000 to build a soundproof communications booth for the office of the administrator, Scott Pruitt.
The contract, with Acoustical Solutions in Richmond, Va., was first reported by The Washington Post.
It calls for the construction of a $24,570 privacy booth for Mr. Pruitts office.
Liz Bowman, a spokeswoman for the E.P.A., did not return requests for comment on the contract.
In a statement to The Post, she said agencies needed to have such booths to guard against hacking and eavesdropping.
This is something which a number, if not all, Cabinet offices have and E.P.A.
needs to have updated, she said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in Climate Change?
Sign up to receive our in-depth journalism about climate change around the world.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Critics say Mr. Pruitt has gone to unusual lengths to operate in secrecy at the E.P.A., where employees report he is often accompanied by armed guards even inside the agency, and avoids making important calls in his office.
He is the first E.P.A.
administrator to have round-the-clock security.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Steve Snider, a salesman at Acoustical Solutions who handled the E.P.A.
contract, said privacy booths are typically used to conduct hearing tests and cost $5,000 to $6,000.
He said the E.P.A.
had requested significant modifications that ultimately required a custom order for the booth with the manufacturer.
Photo

Q.
Who were the artists who made prehistoric cave paintings in France and Spain?
Directly proving anything definitive about the executors of paintings made 33,000 years ago, in the case of the Chauvet Cave in France  or even as long as 40,800 years ago, in the case of the El Castillo cave in Spain  is nearly impossible.
Given the passage of time, most clues are circumstantial and aesthetic.
Several theories about the well-hidden and anatomically accurate portrayals of animals suggest that they involved important and secret magical or religious rituals, so that only the best work would be worthy.
Hunter-artists would presumably be very familiar with the anatomy of animals after close observation of their prey.
More Reporting on Archaeology

After the famous discovery of the Lascaux Cave galleries of animals, the early archaeologist Henri Breuil theorized that they involved rituals of sympathetic magic designed to insure a good hunt.
However, some of the animals portrayed in the Chauvet cave, like lions, panthers, bears and hyenas, were not hunted for food.
Later ideas included the possibility that the art was produced in shamanic rituals under the influence of hallucinogenic substances, or that the paintings were sometimes simply outpourings of creativity by professional and well supported artists.
Still another researcher, R. Dale Guthrie, points out that the whole body of cave art shows a wide range of abilities: There are many unskilled Paleolithic drawings that are rarely reproduced in art books.
6 World

Hes in the U.S.; Shes in Iran: Couples Cope With the Travel Ban
The science itself  like most attempts to link brain biology to behavior  is murkier.
In recent decades, researchers have made extraordinary strides in understanding the workings of brain cells, neural circuits and anatomy.
Photo

Yet drawing a direct line from those basic findings to what people do out in the world is dicey, given the ineffable interplay among circumstance, relationships and personality.
What scientists  from such diverse fields as psychiatry, neurology and substance use  can say is that the arrows seem to be pointing in the same direction.
A number of brain states raise the risk of acting out violently, and the evidence so far, while incomplete, suggests that C.T.E.
may be one of them.
Dr. Samuel Gandy, director of the N.F.L.
neurology program at Mount Sinai Medical Center, said his research showed that rage and irritability are far and away the most prominent symptoms among former players with likely C.T.E.
His group has identified 10 of 24 former players who probably have the disease.
Scientists at Boston University, who reported the findings on Mr. Hernandez, have described similar behavior in many of the more than 100 players they have evaluated.
The caveat for both research efforts is that these samples are selective: Almost all of the players had signs of possible C.T.E.
before being studied, which led the players and their families to participate and to donate their brains for research.
It may still be that most of the athletes in violent sports who develop the signature brain pathology, especially at modest levels, are no more irritable than anyone else.
But an important hint to the contrary comes from a more mature corner of brain science: dementia research.
People with advanced dementia often begin to act in uncharacteristically aggressive ways, as many caregivers can attest.
In a recent study of dementia patients, Swedish researchers found that 97 of 281 dementia patients had a history of aggression.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Those who acted out earliest in the progression of their disease had so-called frontotemporal degeneration  that is, damage concentrated in the frontal and temporal lobes of the brain.
This is where C.T.E.
shows up, too.
In frontotemporal degeneration, a purported association has been made with criminal behavior, said Kevin Bieniek, a research fellow in the Dickson Neuropathology Lab at the Mayo Clinic College of Medicine in Jacksonville, Fla.
Different disease, but some clinical and pathological parallels to C.T.E.
All of this is far from definitive, given the wide variety of factors that affect motivation and impulsive behavior.
Substance abuse is a prominent example.
Mr. Hernandez was no stranger to illicit drugs, according to testimony at his murder trial.
Studies strongly suggest that people who are mentally unstable, particularly those with severe paranoia, are more likely to become violent when under the influence of alcohol or other drugs.
Photo

The link between steroids  such as testosterone  and rage is another confounding factor.
It is rarely clear in mature athletes whether they have used performance-enhancing drugs, or how much.
Testosterone aggravates aggression in the absence of pathology, Dr. Gandy said.
If theres pathology, its likely to make things worse.
As cases like Mr. Hernandezs and others continue to move into the courts, judges will be making decisions based on limited, piecemeal scientific evidence.
These wont be easy decisions to make.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The only way to diagnose C.T.E.
is at autopsy.
A number of scientists, including Dr. Gandys group, are working to refine brain imaging tests intended to detect the signature pathology in living patients.
Those tests are not yet definitive.
Over the past decade, many courts have been reluctant to admit brain scans as exculpatory evidence.
Theres no serious argument about whether violence comes from the brain, said Owen Jones, director of the MacArthur Foundation Research Network on Law and Neuroscience at Vanderbilt University.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its just hard to make a credible claim that a particular brain injury has caused a particular act of violence.
This could be your chance to make Sputnik beep again.
It was on Oct. 4, 1957, just 60 years ago, that the Soviet Union launched the first Earth satellite, Sputnik.
It was little more than an aluminum beach ball with a radio transmitter that sent out a regular series of radio beeps, but it expanded the Cold War to outer space, shook up American technological smugness and probably helped John Kennedy get elected president in 1960.
On Wednesday, just ahead of the 60th anniversary of its launch, a replica of the famous satellite is going on sale at Bonhams in New York City as part of their Air and Space Sale.
Another item on the block is the harness, complete with camera, and an oxygen tank for the rhesus monkeys that preceded Americas Mercury astronauts into space.
The original Sputnik fell out of orbit and burned up three months after its launch.
But test models and engineering replicas, allegedly from the laboratory where the legendary Sergei Korolev built them, have surfaced in museums and collections in recent years  some more authentic than others, said Robert Pearlman, a journalist and space historian who runs the website Collectspace.
Photo

More than half of all American teenagers are getting vaccinated against human papillomavirus, and the rate is rising over time, according to a new report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Sixty percent of adolescents received one or more doses of the HPV vaccine in 2016, an increase of 4 percentage points from 2015, researchers found.
About a decade ago, the figure was less than 30 percent.
Were really encouraged to see this finding, said Shannon Stokley, a co-author of the report and associate director for science at the Immunization Services Division of the C.D.C.
The vaccine protects against strains of HPV that can cause cancers of the cervix, penis, anus and back of the throat.
Close to half of all Americans are infected at any given time, and nearly 32,000 get cancer from the virus each year.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

About 90 percent of those cases could be prevented with the vaccine, according to the C.D.C.
The agency used to recommend three doses, but new guidelines introduced last year amended that to two doses for adolescents younger than age 15.
See how monkeys teach manners, elephants show empathy and ants imitate water in ScienceTake, combining cutting-edge research from the world of science with stunning footage of the natural world in action.
Dr. Delmer pioneered research on how cotton synthesizes cellulose, the primary compound in its fibers.
She wanted to see evidence that the researchers novel molecules formed stable chemical bonds with cellulose.
If they didnt, she said, then the prospects that they can survive harsh treatments when incorporated into fabrics would seem less certain.
Photo

Filipe Natalio, lead author of the study and a scientist at the Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel, said his team had similar concerns.
He and his colleagues used chemical and physical analytical techniques to show that the cellulose in the fibers had undergone changes.
But thats not the same as showing that the new molecules were chemically woven, via enzymatic reactions, into strands of cellulose, Dr. Delmer said.
Instead, Dr. Natalios team could just be picking up signatures of their molecules hanging out in the cells, but not forming long-term linkages.
Dr. Natalio responded that English is not his native language, and to him, words like incorporated or integrated covered the possibility that the molecules got into the cotton fibers without binding to its components.
We didnt claim also that there were linkages, he said.
Given limited room to explain every last detail in the paper, he continued, we had to make a lot of sentences that were very vague and encapsulate information without proving it, which is awkward.
Beyond being unconvinced of the papers central claim, cotton researchers were skeptical about whether Dr. Natalios system would ever evolve past proof of concept.
He spoke in an interview about a not-so-distant future with cotton and other plants growing in hydroponic greenhouses, bathed in fluids with all sorts of customized molecules.
But Dr. Natalio and his colleagues were experimenting with small amounts of cotton embryos in the lab, not whole plants.
Dr. Natalio acknowledged that for the technology to work with actual plants, he would have to synthesize whole new sugars, one of the most delicate chemistries you can do.
Moreover, Dr. Natalios group found that the modified fibers they produced were actually weaker than raw cotton fibers.
Thats a big no-no in the cotton industry, since it wreaks havoc in yarn production and goes against the durability consumers want from cotton, said Don Jones, a director of agricultural research for Cotton Incorporated, a trade organization based in North Carolina.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Cotton experts also noted that the authors cultured their cotton for an unusually short amount of time, many experiments presented in the paper had no information on replication and there were statistics missing in places one might expect to find them.
Mislabeled chemicals in two supplemental figures led Science to publish its editorial expression of concern.
Several experts wondered if the people involved in the peer review of the study were materials scientists, chemists or physicists, not biologists.
When asked what fields the editors and reviewers for this study belonged to, the journal said in an email that Science papers are assigned to a staff editor who identifies the types of expertise needed to evaluate all aspects of the manuscript under consideration, but offered no specifics.
Two of the three biologists who are experts in cotton only agreed to speak on the condition of not being named, out of concern that publicly raising questions about other scientists work could boomerang on their careers.
One of them spotted the misnamed chemicals and contacted Science, leading to the journals expression of concern about the paper.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Ivan Oransky, co-founder of Retraction Watch, a site that reports on problems with scientific research, said the researchers concerns were understandable, but in the long term its bad for science if researchers are not willing to have public, respectful debates.
He added that there are ways to make the peer review process more transparent, like having journals publish reviewers reports and editorial decisions along with articles.
Dr. Natalio said his team is preparing a list of corrections to be attached to the article.
He added that they have preliminary data that suggests the stable chemical linkages that Dr. Delmer had wanted to see.
But he refrained from putting that data in this paper because it was incomplete and he believed it would prolong the review process.
One of the rules of publication?
Dont claim what you cant prove, he said.
Dr. Rosas and his team studied ancient Neanderthal remains recovered from a cave system in Spain known as El Sidrn, where archaeologists have found the remains of more than a dozen individuals, including the childs mother and younger brother.
The first thing the researchers needed to do with their child specimen was determine how old he was.
So they peeked inside his mouth, which had a mix of 30 baby and adult teeth.
By cutting into his teeth they were able to use a microscope to count bands in the enamel, which grow similarly to tree rings.
From their investigation they determined the child was just under eight years old when he died.
They did not find any signs on his bones that would have clued them into the cause of his death.
By investigating the boys cranium, the researchers found that it was only 87.5 percent the size of a full grown Neanderthals cranium.
That differs from anatomically modern human children, who at age seven have craniums that are about 95 percent the size of an adults.
Photo

Because cranium size is a good indicator of brain size, the findings suggest that Neanderthals large brains took longer to grow to adult size than our brains do.
Though the team did not have the childs complete skull, they were able to compare the available fragments with a skull from a different Neanderthal and reconstruct the missing parts.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The team also found the Neanderthal child still had several unfused vertebrae.
In modern human children, those vertebrae are fused around the ages of four to six.
Despite the differences in brain and spine development, the team found that in many ways the Neanderthal child was no different from a modern human child, especially in the elbows, wrists, hands and knees.
Both seem to have experienced similar growth patterns, like having arms and legs that grew slowly between infancy and puberty, according to Dr. Rosas.
Photo

As he went through the whole skeleton, comparing it to skeletons of Homo sapiens, these particular differences stood out, contributing to the mystery of what accounts for the early differences between the two species.
We were surprised because we were expecting some differences, said Dr. Rosas.
But it was, Similar, similar, similar  oh, different  similar, similar  oh, different.
Luis Ros, a paleoanthropologist also at The National Museum of Natural Sciences in Madrid and co-author on the paper, said at a news conference that the new finding about growth rates fits with the generally held idea that Neanderthal brains were bigger.
But to confirm that hypothesis, they will need to further investigate the craniums in the cave, looking for remains between childhood and adulthood, to complete their life cycle of Neanderthals.
Osiris-Rex  a shortening of Origins, Spectral Interpretation, Resource Identification, and Security, Regolith Explorer  was launched last year and circled the sun, returning for Fridays flyby.
It is to arrive at Bennu in about a year.
The asteroid periodically crosses Earths orbit, and theres even a 1-in-2,700 chance that it could hit Earth between 2175 and 2196.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Scientists believe that Bennu, a dark asteroid about 500 yards in diameter, is full of carbon-rich molecules dating back to the birth of the solar system 4.5 billion years ago.
Those molecules might have been the ingredients that led to life on Earth.
Osiris-Rex will attempt to collect a few pounds of rock and dirt from Bennu by gently bouncing off the surface like a pogo stick and collecting material that it disturbs with a burst of nitrogen gas.
It will bring the samples back to Earth in 2023 for closer study.
For the flyby, there is no chance that Osiris-Rex, about the size of an S.U.V., will veer off course and slam into Earth.
Spacecraft navigators have become adept at using precise flybys as slingshots to steer spacecraft through the solar system.
NASAs New Horizons spacecraft, for example, added nearly 9,000 miles per hour to its speed with a Jupiter flyby in 2007, shortening its travel time to Pluto (It still took another eight years to get there).
Dr. Moreau said Osiris-Rex will pass within a kilometer of the targeted spot above Earth.
The timing is precise too, within a few tenths of a second.
It will make its closest approach to Earth at 12:52 p.m. Eastern time on Friday.
Dr. Moreau said his team will face larger navigational challenges once Osiris-Rex gets to Bennu in 2018.
Its the smallest object that has ever been orbited by a spacecraft, he said.
And thats exciting.
The European Space Agencys Rosetta spacecraft spent a couple of years exploring Comet 67P/ChuryumovGerasimenko, a comet about 2.5 miles wide.
Bennu is about one-eighth that diameter, and Osiris-Rex will come within a kilometer of the center of Bennu, Dr. Moreau said.
We are much closer to the object than Rosetta was, he said.
It means a lot of the errors in your estimation of the trajectory and navigation are less forgiving.
With gravity near the asteroid so slight, the navigators need to keep track of even very minute forces, including heat from the spacecraft radiators and the momentum imparted by particles of light hitting the solar panels.
Photo

For Friday, the Osiris-Rex team is encouraging amateurs to photograph the passing spacecraft and share the images on the mission website.
The Desert Fireball Network, a project based at Curtin University in Perth, Australia, will use high-end digital single lens reflex cameras to photograph Osiris-Rex from different angles.
Usually, the project tracks meteors burning up in the Earths atmosphere.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This time, the different angles will allow scientists to reconstruct the three-dimensional path that Osiris-Rex took as it swung by.
To fulfill his flow-finding mission, Mr. Wheal wants to bring what he calls his Dojo Domes to locations around the world.
Next year, he and his partners hope to build a one-million-square-foot complex in Vancouver, British Columbia, with a medical emphasis, combining brain-imaging technology with simpler equipment.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Wheal began to envision gatherings of this sort in 2007, while he was teaching at Esalen, the spiritual retreat in California.
With Steven Kotler, a journalist, he founded the Flow Genome Project, based in Austin, Tex., and dedicated to gathering the latest science behind flow states.
Its board of advisers includes neuroscientists, filmmakers and a kiteboarder.
It was his book, Stealing Fire, written with Mr. Kotler and published earlier this year, that attracted many of the flow campers to Utah.
In it, Mr. Wheal and Mr. Kotler consider the question of peak human performance, describing how so many powerful companies and individuals are now trying to optimize their own brains, in ways both legal and illegal.
They offer case studies from the Navy SEALs and Google, arguing that what the world today faces wicked problems, unprecedented and complex, that require creative solutions, the kinds that are most likely to come not from staid meetings in conference rooms but rather from non-ordinary states.
Flow, they write, is associated with six neurotransmitters: dopamine, serotonin, oxytocin, norepinephrine, anandamide and endorphins.
Knowing the neurochemical profile of flow means, in theory, people can devise ways of achieving it more often, more reliably and more quickly.
The new generation of flowsters are excited, perhaps, that using the advances of neuroscience, they might not have to meditate every day for 10 years to gain access to these layers of their brains.
Photo

This was a significant investment of time and money for me  this tells you how compelled I was to come here, said Alexandre Lang-Willar.
At 28, Mr. Lang-Willar is in some ways the embodiment of Mr. Wheals target demographic: the high achiever who grasps the brass ring, only to discover he craves something more.
Mr. Lang-Willar quit his job as a Goldman Sachs analyst and has created a dating app with his father called Invite and Meet, centered on live activities, that will be introduced later this year.
Reading Stealing Fire, Mr. Lang-Willar said, he became convinced that nothing less than a cultural awakening was underway.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

By 8 a.m. each morning, the flow campers lay prone and shoeless in the Dojo Dome, moving back and forth on brightly colored foam rollers.
Other daily activities included balancing and bouncing on big yellow balls; acro-yoga, in which partners learn to lift each other in the air; and strapping into special contraptions, like Mr. Wheals 360 Swing, which allows those courageous enough to propel themselves, standing up, all the way around the swings axle in a complete loop.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
All of these undertakings were in the service of honing a crucial element in flow, what Mr. Wheal refers to as embodied cognition: integrating our whole minds and bodies through specific exercise, based on the science showing that physical movement directly affects how we think and feel.
They are tapping into spiritual intelligence that before now was only really talked about in a religious context, Kristen Ulmer said, sitting outside the Dojo Dome one morning.
Ms. Ulmer, formerly the top ranked extreme skier in the world, has also written a book, The Art of Fear.
She went on: A lot more people are saying theyre spiritual but not religious  but what does that really mean?
I would say sports and movement are the most oft way we access a spiritual experience and transcend our ego, but theyre the least discussed and least understood.
Other patients would require a slightly higher or lower concentration to achieve the same effect, but the variations were not large.
That led to their introduction in 1965 of a concept, called the minimum alveolar concentration, or MAC, that quickly became the standard measure of potency for anesthetic gases.
Because powerful anesthetics work at lower concentrations and weaker ones require higher doses, a lower MAC value would indicate a stronger drug.
Anesthesiologists use MAC values when planning doses needed for surgery.
The values are highly consistent from one patient to another and even among animals.
For any given drug, about the same concentration can anesthetize a 200-pound man, a smaller woman, a dog or a rat.
The amount needed to reach that concentration differs depending on the patients size, but the effective concentration itself does not change.
Dr. Shafer said the technique devised by Dr. Eger and his colleagues made the administering of anesthesia far safer and has saved millions of lives.
Photo

In later work, Dr. Eger identified new drugs that could be used as anesthesia, such as isoflurane, sevoflurane and desflurane, which are still the most widely used general anesthetics.
Ted Eger revolutionized modern anesthetic practice, and led the way to the development of the anesthetic gases used tens of millions of times a year, Dr. Michael A. Gropper, the chairman of the department of anesthesia and perioperative care at the University of California, San Francisco, wrote in an email.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Edmond I. Eger II was born on Sept. 3, 1930, in Chicago.
(His parents gave him a middle initial but not a middle name.)
His father was an advertising executive, and his mother, the former Miriam Newmann, was a homemaker.
As a boy, Dr. Eger skipped at least one grade, became a whiz at checkers and led the Hyde Park High School checker team to two city championships.
He graduated at 15, but, as a bored and indifferent student, wound up in the bottom 20 percent of the class.
He was soon hired to sell womens shoes, but after only one day on the job he decided he had had enough and resolved to apply for college.
He was accepted at Roosevelt College in Chicago, where he went from not working at all to working his butt off, Dr. Shafer said.
After a year, he transferred to the University of Illinois, where he majored in chemistry with a minor in math.
He went to medical school at Northwestern University.
In 1955, the same year he graduated from Northwestern, he married Dollie Ross, a speech therapist.
The marriage ended in divorce in 1983.
In 1996, he married Dr. Lynn Spitler, an immunologist, who survives him.
Dr. Eger is also survived by three daughters, Cris Cadence Waste, Doreen J. Eger and Renee R. Eger, and a son, Edmond Eger III, all from his first marriage; a half brother, Larry Eger; two stepchildren; seven grandchildren; and six step-grandchildren.
After completing his internship and residency, Dr. Eger served for two years as a captain in the medical corps, based at the Army hospital at Fort Leavenworth, Kan. From 1960 to 2006 he was a faculty member at the University of California, San Francisco.
He was an author of more than 500 scientific articles and an author or editor of seven books.
He received every award known to man in his specialty, Dr. Shafer said.
Dr. Eger spent the last 20 years of his career trying to understand how inhaled anesthetics work.
The drugs and their effects remain a mystery.
The same concentration that knocks out a person will anesthetize a sea slug or an amoeba, and will even paralyze a fern that normally curls up when touched, Dr. Shafer said.
The universality of those reactions suggests that the drugs are tapping into some biological mechanism that evolved eons ago.
Dr. Eger regretted that he had not been able to discover that mechanism, writing in his autobiography, The ah ha!
moment, the thrill of solving the hardest puzzle in all of pharmacology, awaits another investigator.
But they also learned that some sea turtles are still declining  like leatherbacks in the Eastern and Western Pacific.
Their findings support assessments made by the International Union for Conservation of Nature, which lists six of seven species as vulnerable, endangered or critically endangered.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In contrast with some other at-risk species, perhaps sea turtles have been easier to manage because their threats are more tangible: They are accidentally trapped by fishermen or harvested by others as delicacies, aphrodisiacs or decoration.
In the most extreme cases, like in Tortuguero, Costa Rica, nearly all female green turtles at one point had been exported for turtle soup.
But conservation efforts there dating back to the 1950s made an impact, and protecting beaches, regulating fishing and establishing marine protected areas have helped save turtles in many locations.
This isnt often the case in conservation stories of animals, like endangered caribou, which face threats that are more difficult to manage.
Photo

But to truly know how well conservation is working, the researchers found, its best to look at long-term trends (although short-term data has its uses).
Thats because most sea turtle species only nest when foraging is good, and from year to year, the number of nests found on a beach can vary dramatically.
Detecting whether a juvenile sea turtle survives long enough to make babies can take 10 to 30 years while it matures.
They were surprised to find that with adequate protection, even small populations of turtles have a chance of survival.
In an area called French Frigate Shoals in Hawaii, for example, green sea turtles increased nest numbers from around 200 in 1973, when the Endangered Species Act was signed, to around 2,000 in 2012.
This species is now considered of least concern, by the International Union for Conservation of Nature.
Yet research is still lacking.
For all sea turtles, most male to female ratios are unknown, which is an important aspect of reproduction and appears to be altered with increasing sand temperatures, skewing births toward more females.
And a huge initiative to collect more data on flatback turtles in and around Australia may be complicated by a recent announcement that the country will shrink its marine protected areas.
Dr. Mazaris said his paper is a tale of cautionary optimism.
He commends conservationists working to save turtles over the past 70 years, but long term efforts need to be supported.
The alliance includes California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New York, North Carolina, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont, Virginia and Washington; plus Puerto Rico.
All but two states are led by Democratic governors.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Yet theres a caveat to this announcement: Because the states in the alliance only represent 36 percent of the nations population, the United States as a whole is still expected to fall short of Mr. Obamas pledge.
A previous Rhodium Group analysis estimated that total United States emissions would likely drop just 15 to 19 percent by 2025 as Mr. Trump dismantled federal climate policies.
For the country to meet its commitments under the Paris agreement, further action by states would be needed.
The alliance could try to persuade other governors to ratchet up their ambitions, though those prospects are uncertain, since barriers to climate policy in Republican-leaning states are often as much political as technical.
Or the alliance states could pursue even deeper cuts themselves.
But here, experts say, they may face practical limits on how far they can go to tackle global warming on their own.
What States Can, and Cant, Do

In theory, state governments have plenty of ways to cut emissions without federal help.
They can require electric utilities to use more renewable power, modify building codes and impose tougher efficiency standards on appliances.
They can shape transportation infrastructure.
California is allowed to require automakers to sell more electric vehicles, and any state can join its program, as several in the Northeast have done.
Within the climate alliance, most of the efforts to date have focused on cleaning up electric grids.
Collectively, emissions from electricity in the alliance states are expected to drop by half between 2005 and 2025, the Rhodium Group analysis found.
But many experts consider these changes in the power sector the low-hanging fruit of climate policy, aided by a boom in natural gas production that has forced many coal plants into early retirement.
The real test, analysts say, will come as states try to juggle ever-greater shares of intermittent renewable power and tackle other, harder-to-decarbonize sectors like transportation and industry.
Here, the outlook is murkier.
According to the Rhodium Group, emissions from cars and trucks in the alliance states are expected to fall just 18 percent by 2025.
By contrast, emissions from sectors like buildings, heavy industry and agriculture are hardly expected to decline at all.
These sectors are expected to make up more than 60 percent of alliance states emissions by 2025.
Photo

That hints at one limit states may face in pursuing further climate action.
New technologies  like better batteries to help integrate wind and solar, or carbon capture for cement plants  could make the task of deeper decarbonization easier.
But historically, the federal government has led the way in researching and developing these technologies.
And with the Trump administration proposing deep cuts in federal energy research, it is unlikely that process will speed up anytime soon.
I see state action as important, but ultimately, if were serious about deep decarbonization, the federal government needs to get back involved, said David M. Hart, who studies energy policy at the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

There are other risks to a states-only approach.
According to Christopher Clack, chief executive of the grid-modeling firm Vibrant Clean Energy, the best way to fully decarbonize the United States electricity system with renewable energy would be through a national grid that allows optimally placed wind and solar resources from far-flung regions to balance each other out in the face of weather fluctuations.
But such a system would most likely require federal planning.
Right now, solar and wind are still a relatively small slice of electricity, so this isnt a big problem yet, Mr. Clack said.
But as these sources grow, he said, individual state efforts to build out their own renewable bases without broader coordination could lead to a system that is less well-suited to handling large quantities of wind and solar.
A Virtue of Necessity

For their part, the alliance states are trying to overcome these hurdles.
New York, for instance, is trying to nurture energy innovation on a small scale through a state "green bank" that helps companies bring riskier new technologies to market.
While this is no substitute for basic energy research at the national labs, state officials say it can help advance incremental innovation around technologies that are closer to market.
Were trying to make a virtue of necessity, said Richard Kauffman, Governor Cuomos chairman of energy and finance.
In an ideal world, it would be fantastic if we had the federal government providing leadership and investing in R&D and energy infrastructure.
But thats not only not the world were in  with this administration, its not even close to the world that were in.
States also face the risk that the Trump administration could try to thwart their efforts.
Officials in California, for instance, are preparing to challenge any effort by the federal government to pre-empt their electric vehicle mandate on automakers.
And it remains to be seen if the climate alliance can keep adding members.
There was already heavy political pressure in these states to move forward on clean energy, said David G. Victor, a climate policy expert at the University of California, San Diego.
But just because these states demonstrate that it can be done doesnt mean the politics suddenly shift in places like Kentucky or Kansas.
The ultimate significance of these state efforts, Dr. Victor said, may be to help prevent international climate efforts from collapsing, by reassuring other countries that the United States has not totally abandoned the issue.
Now that the rest of the world is over the initial reaction to Trump, theyre trying to figure out whats still real and whats not in U.S. policy, he said.
And these states can offer a starting point for other countries to gauge U.S. climate action, even when whats happening in Washington is chaotic.
But, he added: It all happened really quickly.
Mr. Friedemann, the administrative director of Lebus, could not be reached by email or telephone on Wednesday.
But he was quoted by the German news organization RBB24 as saying that he had made the decision to shoot when he was informed that the animal could be dangerous.
European bison, also known as wisent, are listed as vulnerable, or at risk of extinction, by the International Union for Conservation of Nature, whose Red List is the worlds most comprehensive inventory of threatened plant and animal species.
They are native to Belarus, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Russia, Slovakia and Ukraine, according to the I.U.C.N.
There are about 4,000 free-roaming bison in herds, and a few thousand more in parks or other designated but open areas, according to the European Bison Conservation Center.
Threats include a lack of knowledge about the animal, habitat loss, a narrow genetic base making it weak against disease and the absence of a shared strategy among European nations to support the bison population, said Rewilding Europe, a conservation group that put the bison's population at about 3,000.
Wild bison had not been seen in Germany for over 200 years, said Christoph Heinrich, the director of conservation at the WWF in Germany, in announcing the lawsuit.
Efforts to reintroduce the animals, which can weigh over one ton, have taken place in recent years in western Germany.
The sighting in the east was an anomaly, despite being in line with the impulses of male bison, Mr. Klose said, which tend to roam more than female ones.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
It was obviously a sign that there are suitable habitats in Germany, and if there is a possibility that these big herbivores can come to it, it is a good example that we have to be prepared for that, he said.
A legal framework exists, but if people are overwhelmed and dont know what to do, there is a wildlife management issue.
He said the WWF was suing based on conservation laws, which designated the bison as a protected animal.
We want to make a sign that endangered, rare, protected animals do have a right to live here in Germany and form an integral part of our ecosystem, and we think there needs to be harmonization between the countries, he said.
Animals dont know country borders.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He said the body of the bison was being examined and would be prepared for display, likely in a museum in Potsdam.
Conservationists are working on designating new places for large bison populations to live and breed, said Wanda Olech-Piasecka, a coordinator for the European Bison Conservation Center.
She said the bison had roamed for days near the border and his presence was reported to nature protection authorities in Poland.
She understood from news reports in Germany that local officials in Lebus, who could not be reached on Wednesday, had tried to find a veterinarian to handle the animal but they apparently panicked, she said.
For me, this is the reason we must tell people all around Europe and the world what wildlife means, Ms. Olech said.
Those animals must live with us, and we must learn how to treat them and to let them live.
She added: The problem was they did not start to look for somebody who could solve the problem and answer questions about the species.
The decision was made without research and this is a pity.
Photo

Two strong earthquakes, 12 days apart, have shaken Mexico this month, crumpling buildings, sending panicked people into the streets, and together killing hundreds of people who were unable to escape the destruction.
Just before midnight on Sept. 7, a magnitude-8.1 earthquake  the most powerful to hit Mexico in a century  rattled the country, doing the brunt of its damage to the southern part, which was closest to the quakes epicenter off the Pacific Coast.
Then, on Tuesday, as officials continued their cleanup and recovery efforts, an earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 7.1 struck about 100 miles southeast of Mexico City, causing severe and sustained shaking in the capital.
It occurred on the anniversary of a quake in 1985 that killed as many as 10,000 people in Mexico.
Although it might seem unusual for two strong earthquakes to hit relatively near each other in such a short time, scientists say strong earthquakes can sometimes alter stresses nearby, leading to subsequent quakes.
But they are not sure yet if that is what happened with these two.
Heres a look at some of what they know about earthquakes, how often they strike, and where the most powerful ones can occur.
Why does Mexico keep getting hit with powerful earthquakes?
Photo

Mexicos location makes the country prone to strong earthquakes because it is in a so-called subduction zone.
Subduction zones are the parts of the earth where one slab of the crust is slowly sliding under another.
In Mexicos case, an oceanic plate  the Cocos  is gradually sinking beneath a continental plate  the North American.
Over time, stress builds because of friction between the slabs, and at some point, the strain becomes so great that all the pent-up energy is released in the form of an earthquake.
The subduction zone responsible for the two recent quakes runs along the western coast of Central America, from Central Mexico to Panama, said Gavin Hayes, a research geophysicist with the United States Geological Survey.
Other subduction zones are found across the globe  and experts say they are responsible for the worlds most powerful earthquakes.
In fact, earthquakes with a magnitude of 9.0 or higher can occur only in subduction zones, Dr. Hayes said.
Relatively recent examples of such megathrust quakes include a magnitude-9.1 quake off Japan in 2011, a magnitude-9.1 quake in Indonesia in 2004, a magnitude-9.2 quake that struck Alaska on Good Friday in 1964 and a magnitude-9.5 quake that struck Chile in 1960  the strongest quake ever recorded.
Why werent the Mexico quakes even stronger?
Both earthquakes that struck Mexico this month occurred within the sinking Cocos Plate, rather than between the Cocos Plate and the North American.
Had the recent quakes occurred between the plates, it would have produced a megathrust.
Quakes at plate boundaries usually involve larger faults and thus release more energy, generating shaking over larger areas.
But they also usually occur farther from the surface, Dr. Hayes said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Earthquakes that happen inside a plate tend to be weaker, but closer to the surface.
Consequently they can cause major damage to whatever is sitting above them.
The Sept. 7 earthquake was stronger than the one that struck less than two weeks later, but experts said it could have less of an impact because the epicenter was farther from densely populated areas.
The more recent quake was much closer to Mexico City, which Dr. Hayes said is built on a sedimentary basin.
That kind of geology amplifies an earthquakes shaking more so than, say, an area with more bedrock.
How often do strong quakes happen?
Typically, about one quake of magnitude 8 or higher occurs somewhere in the world every year; there are about a dozen quakes of magnitude 7 or higher annually, Dr. Hayes said.
So far, 2017 has actually been a quiet year for earthquakes, Dr. Hayes said.
According to U.S.G.S.
data, about 4,200 earthquakes of magnitude 4.5 or higher have occurred around the world so far this year.
Over the same period in 2016 and 2015, about 5,100 quakes of the same strength occurred.
In 2014 there were closer to 6,000.
Where might a powerful quake strike in the United States?
There are two subduction zones in the United States.
One, which includes Alaska, generated the 9.2 quake in 1964, and therefore, Dr. Hayes said, another quake of that strength probably wont happen for hundreds of years.
The other, the Cascadia subduction zone, runs along the Pacific Coast on the western borders of Oregon and Washington.
There, the Juan de Fuca Plate is edging east and slipping slowly beneath the North American Plate.
This Cascadia subduction zone last generated a magnitude-9.0 earthquake in the Pacific Northwest in 1700, and based on what we know about the frequency of such quakes, Dr. Hayes said that another one of similar strength could occur any day now.
A quake that big, and the tsunami it would generate, would be devastating to both Oregon and Washington, especially their coasts, Dr. Hayes said.
Our operating assumption is that everything west of Interstate 5 will be toast, an official with the Federal Emergency Management Agency told The New Yorker.
Oklahoma has had issues in recent years with what Dr. Hayes called human-induced earthquakes, which are the result of wastewater being pumped into the ground.
They have been recorded with magnitudes as high as about 5.8, but its not clear how much stronger they can get.
The San Andreas fault, which creates something of a spine that runs north to south along most of western California, is capable of producing an earthquake with a magnitude as high as 8.2, Dr. Hayes said.
Such a quake would be relatively shallow, he added, and experts say it could be catastrophic for the densely populated state.
