(Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump ramped up his fight with the National Football League on Tuesday, calling on the league to ban players from kneeling in protest at games while the national anthem is played.
The NFL has all sorts of rules and regulations.
The only way out for them is to set a rule that you cant kneel during our National Anthem!
Trump wrote on Twitter.
For the fifth straight day the president denounced the symbolic gesture, which has been adopted by some black players in the last year to protest against racial disparities in the criminal justice system.
An NFL spokesman did not respond to requests for comment.
Trump praised two teams that played on Monday night and largely steered clear of the controversy.
The Arizona Cardinals linked arms and stood for the Star-Spangled Banner along with the Dallas Cowboys, who knelt before the song.
Last Friday, Trump told a political rally any protesting player was a son of a bitch who should be fired, and urged a boycott of NFL games, triggering protests by dozens of players, coaches and some owners before Sundays games.
Trumps verbal assault may appeal to his conservative base as the Republican president grapples with critical issues including North Koreas nuclear threats, a humanitarian crisis in hurricane-struck Puerto Rico, an investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election and the healthcare struggle in Congress.
U.S. President Donald Trump speaks before signing a memorandum "Increasing Access to High-Quality Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) Education" in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington, U.S., September 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Joshua Roberts

Paul Ryan, the most senior Republican in the U.S. House of Representatives, said he also disapproved of the gesture.
People are clearly within their rights to express themselves how they see fit, he told reporters.
My own view though is that we shouldnt do it on the anthem.
Slideshow (8 Images)

U.S. Attorney General Jeff Session told an audience at Washingtons Georgetown Law School that the protesting athletes were wrong.
The players arent subject to any prosecution, but if they take a provocative act, they can expect to be condemned, he said.
Hillary Clinton, Trumps Democratic rival in the 2016 election, called Trumps comments a huge, loud dog whistle to his supporters in an interview with CBS.
Former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick first kneeled during the anthem last year to protest police shootings of unarmed black men.
His former teammate Eric Reid wrote in a New York Times opinion article that he and Kaepernick chose to kneel as a respectful gesture, comparing it to a flag flown at half-mast to mark a tragedy.
Sep 26, 2017; Pittsburgh, PA, USA; Pittsburgh Pirates center fielder Andrew McCutchen (22) singles against the Baltimore Orioles during the fifth inning at PNC Park.
Charles LeClaire-USA TODAY Sports

(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Tuesdays Major League Baseball games:

Pirates 10, Orioles 1

Andrew McCutchen recorded a career-high eight RBIs, including a grand slam and a three-run homer, to lead the Pittsburgh Pirates to a 10-1 victory over the Baltimore Orioles on Tuesday.
In the second inning, McCutchen cracked his first career grand slam over the center-field wall to give Pittsburgh a 6-0 lead.
His second home run made it 10-1 in the sixth.
McCutchen was taken out of the game at the start of the seventh inning, allowing the crowd to give him a standing ovation.
He also had a double and a single to go 4-for-4 while becoming the first Pirate to have eight RBIs in a game since Jason Bay on July 2, 2004.
Rockies 6, Marlins 0

Tyler Anderson pitched seven scoreless innings as Colorado moved another step closer to the post-season with a victory over Miami.
The Rockies lead Milwaukee for the National Leagues second wild-card berth by 1 1/2 games.
Trevor Story hit a three-run homer in Colorados four-run first inning, and Nolan Arenado belted a two-run homer in the fifth off Marlins starter Jose Urena (14-7).
Brewers 7, Reds 6

Domingo Santana hit a three-run homer, and Stephen Vogt doubled three times and scored two runs to lead Milwaukee past Cincinnati.
Santana went deep for the 29th time this season as the Brewers combined for 10 hits.
It helped make up for a short outing from Brewers starter Zach Davies, who was charged with three runs, six hits and two walks in four-plus innings.
Cardinals 8, Cubs 7

Jedd Gyorko and Randal Grichuk hit home runs in the seventh inning to build an 8-3 lead as St Louis prevented Chicago from winning the NL Central title.
The Cardinals remained 2 1/2 games behind Colorado for the NLs second wild-card spot.
Jake Arrieta (14-10) lasted only three innings for the Cubs, yielding five runs (three earned) and six hits with one walk and four strikeouts.
Blue Jays 9, Red Sox 4

Chris Sale was hammered for four home runs in five innings, and Toronto played the role of spoiler for a second straight night by beating Boston.
Josh Donaldson hit two solo homers, Teoscar Hernandez delivered one, and Kendrys Morales belted a two-run shot off Sale (17-8).
Happ (10-11) pitched seven strong frames to keep the Red Sox from moving closer to their second straight American League East title.
Boston leads the New York Yankees by three games with five to play.
Yankees 6, Rays 1

Jordan Montgomery survived an eventful first inning and pitched six effective innings as New York clinched at least home-field advantage in next weeks wild-card game with a victory over Tampa Bay.
Aaron Hicks returned from a second disabled list stint because of an oblique injury and had an eventful start.
He helped Montgomery (9-7) by leaping in front of the 385-foot sign to rob Wilson Ramos of a first-inning grand slam.
Twins 8, Indians 6

Brian Doziers three-run homer in the eighth inning lifted Minnesota to its fifth straight victory and to the brink of a playoff berth.
The Twins, whose magic number to clinch the second AL wild-card spot was reduced to one over the Los Angeles Angels, pounded out 17 hits and used 10 pitchers in the game that saw starter Bartolo Colon leave after one inning because of illness.
Sep 26, 2017; Denver, CO, USA; Colorado Rockies starting pitcher Tyler Anderson (44) delivers a pitch in the first inning against the Miami Marlins at Coors Field.
Isaiah J. Downing-USA TODAY Sports

Angels 9, White Sox 3

Los Angeles used a six-run second to build an early lead, and Parker Bridwell worked 6 2/3 innings to improve to 5-0 on the road with a victory over Chicago.
Brandon Phillips, Luis Valbuena and Mike Trout each homered off White Sox Chris Volstad (1-1) in the second inning.
Volstad, making his first start in five years, pitched five innings.
Dodgers 9, Padres 2

Yasmani Grandal and Corey Seager hit three-run homers, and Alex Wood worked around trouble for six innings as Los Angeles clinched home-field advantage throughout the NL playoffs with a victory over San Diego.
The win was the Dodgers 56th at home this season, breaking the Los Angeles record for home victories in a season despite a stretch of nine consecutive home games during their recent 1-16 slump.
Astros 14, Rangers 3

Dallas Keuchel allowed two runs (one earned) in six innings as Houston routed Texas.
The Astros closed within one game of Cleveland for the best record and home-field advantage in the American League playoffs.
Houston clinched home field in the AL Division Series.
Sep 26, 2017; Milwaukee, WI, USA; Milwaukee Brewers right fielder Domingo Santana (16) hits a 3-run homer in the first inning against the Cincinnati Reds at Miller Park.
Benny Sieu-USA TODAY Sports

Diamondbacks 11, Giants 4

J.D.
Martinez hit a grand slam and drove in six runs, and Robbie Ray won his sixth consecutive decision as Arizona defeated San Francisco.
Martinez doubled home two runs in first inning and hit a grand slam in a six-run second inning to extend his strong September run.
He is hitting .414 with 15 homers and 35 RBIs in 21 games this month and 44 home runs in 115 games this season.
Mariners 6, Athletics 3

Danny Valencia hit a three-run homer, Yonder Alonso launched a two-run shot, and Seattle defeated Oakland for a franchise record eighth straight time.
Alonso, a former Athletic, hit his 27th home run of the season in the fourth inning.
Valencia, who also played for Oakland, hit his 15th homer in the seventh.
Khris Davis hit his career-high-tying 42nd home run for the As, a two-run shot in the sixth.
Phillies 4, Nationals 1

Jake Thompson allowed one run in five-plus innings as Philadelphia spoiled the return of Bryce Harper in its victory over Washington.
Thompson (3-2) hit Anthony Rendon with a pitch to start the sixth inning and was removed after allowing one run and four hits with five strikeouts.
Harper, who had been out since Aug. 13 due to left leg injuries, batted three times and was removed after his fifth-inning popout.
The slugger finished 0-for-2 with a walk.
Mets 4, Braves 3

Travis Taijerons RBI single with one out in the ninth inning capped a comeback that gave New York a victory over Atlanta.
Kevin Plawecki, whose two-run homer in the seventh pulled the Mets within 3-2, led off the ninth with a single off A.J.
Minter (0-1).
Dominic Smith then drew a walk before Minter struck out Amed Rosario.
Taijeron followed with a line drive over the head of left fielder Jace Peterson as pinch runner Juan Lagares raced home.
Royals 2, Tigers 1

Jason Vargas claimed his 18th victory, and Whit Merrifield scored a run and drove in a run as Kansas City defeated Detroit.
Vargas (18-10) picked up his first win over the Tigers since June 16, 2014.
He surrendered one run on five hits over six innings, throwing 54 strikes in 82 pitches.
He walked one and struck out three.
FILE PHOTO: Coach and former player Carlos Moya (R) talks to Spain's Rafael Nadal during a training session ahead of the Australian Open tennis tournament in Melbourne, Australia, January 15, 2017.
REUTERS/Issei Kato

(Reuters) - World number one Rafa Nadal says the addition of compatriot Carlos Moya to his coaching team has added freshness and positive energy to the Spaniards training routine.
Moya, a former world number one, joined Nadals team to work with his uncle Toni Nadal last December and has helped revitalize the 31-year-olds career.
Plagued by injuries and a loss of form in the past two years, Nadal has risen to number one in the rankings and won his 10th French Open title and third U.S. Open this year.
He lost to his great rival Roger Federer in the Australian Open final.
Carlos has been a great support.
He came with excitement and also the belief that with a few things, I could improve my results.
And it has helped, Nadal told Spanish newspaper El Espanol.
It has been a breath of fresh air, positive energy.
We have changed the way we practice and for Toni it has been also good.
Nadal said Moya came on board and studied his daily practice sessions before offering specific ideas on how he could improve his game.
When someone new arrives, its easier to listen because its something different.
For Toni, having Carlos reinforcement when he had to talk to me, has made everything much easier.
Toni had said earlier this year he intended to step down from his role at the end of the season and Nadal praised his efforts working with Moya and Francisco Roig.
They have been a great team and I am very satisfied with their job, with the three of them, he said.
Nadal will play in Beijing and Shanghai next month as he looks to secure the year-end number one ranking and winning his first ATP Finals title.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. authorities on Tuesday unveiled fraud charges against 10 people associated with some of the countrys premier college basketball programs, including four coaches and an Adidas AG executive, following a two-year corruption probe.
Prosecutors said they uncovered two related schemes, including one in which apparel executives, financial advisers and others bribed assistant college coaches to steer elite players to them, and a second in which players were allegedly bribed to enroll at schools sponsored by Adidas.
The charges reflect what prosecutors called the criminal influence of money on National Collegiate Athletic Association basketball, and the conflicts that could arise from the drive to win and the need to provide student-athletes an education.
College sports has a history of corruption, but the involvement of coaches is particularly troubling, said Mark Conrad, a sports law and ethics professor at Fordham Universitys Gabelli School of Business.
It raises questions about the priorities of the so-called power schools.
Among those charged was Chuck Person, a former National Basketball Association star who became associate head coach at Auburn University, his alma mater.
The other coaches charged are Anthony Tony Bland, from the University of Southern California; Lamont Evans, from Oklahoma State University and formerly the University of South Carolina; and Emanuel Book Richardson, from the University of Arizona.
We have no tolerance whatsoever for this alleged behavior, NCAA President Mark Emmert said in a statement.
Coaches hold a unique position of trust with student-athletes and their families and these bribery allegations, if true, suggest an extraordinary and despicable breach of that trust.
Person, Evans and Richardson were suspended by their respective universities, while USC said it put Bland on leave and hired former FBI Director Louis Freeh to conduct an internal probe.
CONTEMPT

Among those also charged were James Gatto, director for global sports marketing for basketball at Adidas; Rashan Michel, who runs an Atlanta apparel company; New Jersey money manager Munish Sood; and Christian Dawkins, a former ASM Sports agent who prosecutors said was fired in May.
Prosecutors said Gatto and others funneled $100,000 from Adidas, identified as Company-1, to the family of an elite high school prospect so he would play at an Adidas-sponsored school matching the description of the University of Louisville.
The player was also expected to sign with Adidas upon turning professional, prosecutors said.
Joon Kim, the acting U.S. attorney in Manhattan, told a press conference the defendants showed contempt for players and coaches who follow the rules.
Adidas said in an email it was unaware of any misconduct and would fully cooperate with authorities to understand more.
Jeff Duffey, a lawyer for Person, declined to comment.
The firm matching the description in court papers of Soods firm had no immediate comment.
Other defendants lawyers declined to comment or could not be identified.
PLAYING BY THE RULES

Person, 53, was a two-time All-American at Auburn and became its all-time scoring leader.
He later played for the Indiana Pacers and other teams in a 13-year NBA career.
Prosecutors said Person accepted $91,500 of bribes over 10 months from a financial adviser, who was secretly cooperating with prosecutors, in exchange for steering NBA-worthy Auburn players to hire the adviser and buy suits from Michel.
They said Person also claimed to pay $18,500 of that sum to two players families.
Court papers describe a secretly recorded meeting at a Manhattan hotel last December where Person told an Auburn player that he knew some of his help was a violation ... of rules, but this is how the NBA players get it done, they get early relationships, and they form partnerships, they form trust.
Auburn President Steven Leath said on Twitter the school was saddened, angry and disappointed by the news.
We are committed to playing by the rules, and thats what we expect from our coaches, he said.
Louisvilles interim president, Gregory Postel, USC Athletic Director Lynn Swann, Arizona and South Carolina said their respective schools would cooperate with authorities.
Paul Haagen, co-director of Duke Universitys Center for Sports Law and Policy, said the charges reflect pressure on coaches to recruit players, and on apparel companies to sign up future stars like Michael Jordan, the NBA Hall of Famer long associated with Nike Inc.

Everyone wants to be making money, Haagen said.
The main significance is whether this probe involves just these charges, or turns into a much bigger investigation.
It has the indicia of being much larger.
SEPANG, Malaysia (Reuters) - Formula One championship leader Lewis Hamilton was handed a lucky break in Singapore but the Mercedes driver can take little more than the heat and humidity for granted in Malaysia this weekend.
The Briton needs no reminding of just how fickle fortune can be as he returns to the steamy circuit where his 2016 title hopes suffered a blow that ultimately proved too great to overcome.
Hamilton has a 28 point advantage over Ferraris Sebastian Vettel thanks to the German crashing out on the opening lap in Singapore from pole position and gifting him a third successive win.
The gap between the two is the biggest it has been all year and Hamilton will not need to win another race this year to clinch his fourth title if he triumphs on Sunday with Vettel lower than second.
But the 32-year-old will still be wary of Sepang, hosting its final race before Malaysia drops off the calendar, after last years engine failure struck while he was leading from pole.
I think its going to be very close in the next races, said Hamilton, who has won every grand prix since the mid-season break, after celebrating his 60th career victory.
Weve just got to stay on our toes and keep trying to extract everything out of this car.
Hamilton won four of the five races after Malaysia last year but it was still not enough to stop team mate Nico Rosberg taking the title.
The last race was a strong reminder that sport always has the power to surprise and defy all predictions, said Mercedes team boss Toto Wolff after the two Ferraris collided at Singapore.
We have been on the receiving end of those bad moments before, and we know that they can happen as easily to us as anybody else.
Mercedes are expecting the circuit to suit them better than the tight twists of Singapore but they also have a mixed record there.
The champions, who are 102 points ahead of Ferrari in the constructors standings, have won just once in Malaysia since the introduction of the 1.6 liter turbo-hybrid engines in 2014.
Vettel, who has a record four wins at Sepang to Hamiltons one, scored his maiden triumph for Ferrari there in 2015 while team mate Kimi Raikkonen chalked up his first Formula One victory at the track in 2003 with McLaren.
Red Bull cashed in on Hamiltons misfortune last year.
Australian Daniel Ricciardo led Dutch team mate Max Verstappen, 20 on Saturday, in a one-two finish for the former champions.
With tropical downpours an ever-present threat, the former champions could find themselves in the frame again.
My victory last year in Malaysia was definitely unexpected, said Ricciardo, who was second in Singapore.
It just goes to show you never know what can happen.
Away from the title battle, French driver Pierre Gasly will be a new face on the grid as he makes his debut with Red Bull-owned Toro Rosso in place of under-performing Russian Daniil Kvyat.
Sep 26, 2017; Jersey City, NJ, USA; International Team golfer Adam Scott addresses the media in a press conference during the practice round of The Presidents Cup golf tournament at Liberty National Golf Course.
Kyle Terada-USA TODAY Sports

JERSEY CITY, New Jersey (Reuters) - When Adam Scott made his Presidents Cup debut in 2003, the Australian would never have envisaged that some 14 years later he would still be waiting to taste an International Team victory over the dominant Americans.
Now 37, Scott is the veteran for the Internationals at Liberty National this week, as soft-spoken and polite as ever, but now a leader whose words carry weight in the team room.
Adam is a very quiet guy but when he speaks its with such conviction and passion, team captain Nick Price told reporters on Tuesday.
Scott is almost destined to one day lead the team himself but for now, the 2013 U.S. Masters champion would just like to play on a winning side.
The Internationals tied the United States in South Africa in 2003, when Ernie Els and Tiger Woods dueled in a thrilling playoff that was called a draw in fading light.
That was a good debut experience for Scott, but six subsequent consecutive defeats have been sobering.
Perhaps a touch jaded but still optimistic, Scott hopes to feed off his younger team mates as much as they feed off him.
Its good to see a lot of young blood in the team and excitement levels are at an all-time high, he said of team in which six of the 12 players are aged below 30.
Its been a while since that was me in South Africa, so really thats a lot of inspiration for me coming this week, (to) feed off them a little bit, too, as much as I can give advice or whatever Im meant to do as an old bloke.
For them to lift me up, too, and make me feel young again is important.
Scotts record is hardly spectacular -- 13 wins, 17 losses and five halves -- due mainly to an awful return in alternate shot foursomes, but he has a winning 4-3-0 record in singles, where there is nowhere to hide.
And though non-confrontational by nature, Scott has started taking on a role he feels is important, even if it does not come naturally.
I didnt really know what was going on in 03, he said.
But now Ive played so much, and it seems a bit of my role, as well, the last couple of Cups has been to be a bit of a team room player for the guys and just make sure everyone is feeling comfortable.
Ive seen a lot at this stuff, and someone has also got to be able to speak up to these very respected captains, who might not be seeing exactly what the players are feeling sometimes, too.
Ive been fairly happy to fill that role the last couple of years.
(Reuters) - Multiple Olympic track cycling champion Jason Kenny has reversed a decision to retire after the 2016 Rio Games and is back on his bike in search of a seventh gold medal at Tokyo in 2020.
Kenny won three golds in Rio to move level with Chris Hoys record for the most golds won by a Briton and the 29-year-old, who also won a silver at Beijing in 2008, is one short of Bradley Wiggins British record of eight medals of any color.
All three men won their medals in cycling events.
Kenny, who never made his retirement public, said he was refreshed after a year away and would return to competition at a Manchester event in January.
Id pretty much made the decision that I wasnt going to come back, Kenny told British media.
I didnt want to announce anything...
I was happy to walk away.
But, when I did refresh, I started enjoying it again, out on the mountain bike and in the gym, he added.
My short-term goal is to get some points, get back in the team and get competitive, with the goal of making another Olympics... Its going to be really challenging but Im hoping Ill get something out of it.
PARK CITY, Utah (Reuters) - LA2028 Chairman Casey Wasserman knows full well that he, and the rest of the world, will look very different by the time the cauldron is lit for the opening ceremony of the 2028 Summer Games.
Already with a full head of gray hair, Wasserman admitted his life, appearance, and the city will all be very different following an unprecedented 11-year run-up to the Games.
Even inventor Elon Musk, the chief executive of electric car maker Tesla and rocket company SpaceX who is developing plans to colonize Mars, was unable to offer Wasserman a picture of what the world might look like when Los Angeles hosts the Olympics for a third time.
He (Musk) said he couldnt even imagine what the world is going to be like then, Wasserman, recalling a conversation he had with Musk, said in an interview with Reuters on Tuesday.
Its hard to imagine that the guy who is imagining the future cant imagine what the world is going to be like so Im not sure how I could possibly do that.
The cornerstone of the Los Angeles bid was that the city could host a Games tomorrow.
That tomorrow, however, is now more than a decade away.
There will be five Olympics staged before 2028 and a lot can happen in 11 years, including a possibility of the United States staging another Games before Los Angeles takes the spotlight.
Still basking in the glow of being confirmed as the 2028 hosts, the United States Olympic Committee admitted at this weeks Team USA Media Summit that they are considering bidding for the 2026 or 2030 Winter Games.
But it is just not the Olympic landscape that Wasserman and his team must map.
Technology may well represent the biggest challenge facing the LA2028 organizing committee, changing everything from the way fans purchase tickets to the way they get to venues and experience events.
Sep 26, 2017; Park City, UT, USA; LA 2028 chairman Casey Wasserman speaks during the 2018 U.S. Olympic Summit at Grand Summit Hotel.
Mandatory Credit: Jerry Lai-USA TODAY Sports

To think that in 2006 in Turin there was no iPhone is almost incomprehensible given where we are today.
So to try and imagine where we will be in 11 years is almost impossible, Wasserman said on Tuesday.
The yearly iterations are hard to fathom let alone a decade iteration.
From the mundane to maybe there is no more cash or credit cards to everyone having driverless cars and what does that do to the traffic flows.
What does the virtual reality experience look like in 2028.
There is really simple day-to-day stuff and then there is big idea whiz-bang stuff.
Sep 26, 2017; Park City, UT, USA; From left LA 2028 athlete advisory commission members Maia Shibutani , Alex Shibutani and LA 2028 vice chair Janet Evans and chairman Casey Wasserman speak during the 2018 U.S. Olympic Summit at Grand Summit Hotel.
Mandatory Credit: Jerry Lai-USA TODAY Sports

Technology will evolve, that is one thing that is certain and our job will be to make sure we put the Olympics in LA in the right place in the right time.
One thing LA2028 organizers have plenty of is time as cities are usually given a seven-year run up to hosting an Olympics.
However, following the withdrawals of all but two candidates - Paris and LA - for the 2024 Olympics, officials decided to award both staging rights of successive Games.
But time can be both a blessing and a curse.
For Wasserman, it is one of LA2028s most valuable commodities.
We have tons of it but I am certain we will never have enough, said Wasserman.
We aspire to do great things with the Olympic Games in LA and so time is frankly our most valuable and more scarce resource, which sounds ironic given we have 11 years to plan and no venues to build.
Driverless cars, virtual reality, new sports and new athletes, the 2028 Summer Games could have them all but Wasserman is emphatic one thing will not change -- Olympic traditions.
While all that is around the Games may evolve, Wasserman said the history and traditions that anchor the Olympics and make them unique will remain intact.
The Olympic traditions are what make the Olympic Games special and our job will be to make that moment emotional and special for the people in the stadium, for the city of Los Angeles, the United States and the whole world, said Wasserman.
No technology, no developments are going to change that.
Sep 26, 2017; Jersey City, NJ, USA; U.S.
Team golfer Phil Mickelson hits his tee shot on the 15th hole during the practice round of The Presidents Cup golf tournament at Liberty National Golf Course.
Mandatory Credit: Kyle Terada-USA TODAY Sports

JERSEY CITY, New Jersey (Reuters) - It is difficult to decide whether it is more impressive that Phil Mickelson has played every Presidents Cup or that he has only once been on a losing U.S. team.
Mickelson will play his 12th consecutive Presidents Cup when he tees up at Liberty National on Thursday against an International team from the rest of the world, excluding Europe.
He has not missed a Ryder Cup either since his debut in 1995, which means he will make his 23rd team appearance for the red, white and blue, a remarkable record not just of sustained excellence, but also of having avoided serious injury.
He had to rely on a wild card pick by captain Steve Stricker this year, something few would begrudge him.
Its one of the things Im most proud of, to continue to be a part of this, the 47-year-old Californian said on Tuesday.
While some observers think the Presidents Cup needs the International team to win occasionally to boost the status of the event, Mickelson does not quite see it that way.
Sep 26, 2017; Jersey City, NJ, USA; U.S.
Team golfer Phil Mickelson chips during The Presidents Cup golf tournament at Liberty National Golf Course.
Mandatory Credit: Bill Streicher-USA TODAY Sports

I dont think so, no, he said when the question was posed.
If you look at the talent on the International team, it is strong and it is deep and if we open the door and give them an opportunity it will bite us.
Mickelson has won five major championships, and probably would have captured considerably more if his career had not coincided with that of Tiger Woods.
Slideshow (4 Images)

Hes Phil Mickelson for a reason but I think I lot of people dont realize how good he is, said Australian Jason Day, a member of the International team.
I think Tiger kind of overshadows his career a little bit.
If there was no Tiger, I wonder have many times Phil probably would have won.
Day described Mickelson as one of the best players that ever lived and expressed awe at his longevity as a player in the Presidents Cup since it started in 1994.
That is probably one of the best accomplishments you could have, because it means you were consistent from 1994 all the way up to 2017.
Thats hard to do.
Golf - The Senior Open Championship - Porthcawl Golf Club, South Wales - 24/7/14 Wales' Ian Woosnam in action during the first round Mandatory Credit: Action Images / Andrew Boyers Livepic

(Reuters) - Ian Woosnam, a metaphorical giant of the game, used his World Golf Hall of Fame induction on Tuesday to joke about a time he was told he was too small to ever succeed at the sport.
I was once asked by a member of my golf club around the age of 14, he said, young Woosnam, what are you going to do when you leave school?'
the diminutive Welshman said at the New York ceremony.
I said, Im going to be a professional golfer, like my heroes, Arnold Palmer, Jack Nicklaus and Gary Player.
I want to travel the world, win golf tournaments and majors and become the best golfer in the world.
He laughed, and he tapped me on the head and said, well, if you want to try to achieve all that, youre going to have to grow a little.
He was right.
I did grow a little, about four inches.
Woosnam, who topped out at 5-feet 4-inches (162 centimeters), went on to become a world number one and win a major championship at the 1991 Masters.
The 59-year-old, who is affectionately known throughout the golf world as Wee Woosie, was inducted on Tuesday along with Americans Davis Love and Meg Mallon, and Mexican Lorena Ochoa.
Love offered a sobering reminder that golf is just a game by commenting on the current global geo-political situation.
We live in a country where life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness are at our core but we dont forget that just recently golfers in Japan got pulled off of a course because of a North Korea missile test, the 1997 PGA Championship winner said.
Ochoa, who retired at 28 to start a family, joked that writing her inductee speech was probably harder than having a baby.
She recalled her junior days and what motivated her as a child.
When I was eight, my dad told me if I qualified to represent Mexico in the world championship, he would take me to California.
To tell you the truth, I just wanted to go to Disneyland, she said to laughter.
A Lake Ozark, Missouri, bar is under scrutiny for doormats that some see as a racist gesture.
Owner Jason Burle said race was not the issue on his mind when he taped two NFL jerseys in front of the S.N.A.F.U.
bar that read "Lynch" and "Kaeperick."
AP reporters counted more than 200 NFL players who did not stand during the national anthem before their games on Sunday.
(Published Monday, Sept. 25, 2017)

A photo of basketball Hall of Famer and Boston Celtics legend Bill Russell kneeling while wearing his Presidential Medal of Freedom surfaced on social media Monday in an apparent gesture of solidarity to the sports world's reaction to President Donald Trump's comments on protesting NFL players.
"Proud to take a knee, and to stand tall against social injustice.
#takeaknee #medaloffreedom #NFL #BillRussell #MSNBC," read the caption under a photo posted on an unverified Twitter account listed under Russell's name.
The account was created earlier this month and only had one previous tweet before the photo was posted.
It was not clear if the account belongs to Russell.
The 83-year-old was awarded the Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor, in 2011 by President Barack Obama.
The civil rights activist has long fought for human rights and became the first black man to coach an NBA team.
See It: NFL Players Protest After Trump's Criticism



Russell played for the Celtics from 1956-1969.
The 11-time NBA champion later coached the Seattle SuperSonics and Sacramento Kings.
Trump's urging of NFL team owners to fire or suspend players who don't stand for the national anthem led to more than 200 players protesting, many kneeling, during the "Star Spangled Banner" at football games over the weekend.
Owners, coaches, former players, celebrities and other athletes also joined gestures of solidarity and condemned the president's comments.
Lebron James: Trump Trying to 'Divide Us'
Lebron James: Trump Trying to 'Divide Us'

Cleveland Cavaliers forward LeBron James spoke Monday about the NFL protest saying President Trump is trying to divide the nation.
In this photo shared on Twitter on Sept. 24, 2017, World War II Veteran John Middlemas, 97, takes a knee in support of protesting NFL players.
A photo of a 97-year-old WWII veteran kneeling to show solidarity with protesting NFL players is being shared widely on social media after the vet's grandson posted it to Twitter Sunday.
Brennan Gilmore posted the photo of his grandfather, John Middlemas, around 7:30 a.m. Sunday, before National Football League players knelt during the national anthem, NBC News reported.
My grandpa is a 97-year-old WWII vet & Missouri farmer who wanted to join (with) those who #TakeaKnee: those kids have every right to protest, Gilmore wrote as a caption on the tweet.
As of Monday, the photo had been shared more than 140,000 times and liked by more than 377,000 users.
After President Donald Trump demanded that the NFL fire athletes who do not stand during the national anthem, more than 200 players knelt, sat or otherwise expressed protest during Sunday games across the country in solidarity with Colin Kaepernick and in opposition to the president's stance.
Here are past examples when U.S. athletes protested during competition.
President Donald Trump held a rally in Huntsville, Alabama, Friday night to endorse Sen. Luther Strange.
Here are some key moments from his speech.
Add Michael Jordan to the list of sports figures addressing President Donald Trump's comments about national anthem protests and activist athletes.
The Chicago Bulls legend and current Charlotte Hornets owner told the Charlotte Observer in a statement "one of the fundamental rights this country is founded on was freedom of speech, and we have a long tradition of nonviolent, peaceful protest."
"Those who exercise the right to peacefully express themselves should not be demonized or ostracized," the statement read.
I support Commissioner Adam Silver, the NBA, its players and all those who wish to exercise their right to free speech.
For three days, Trump has drawn criticism from the worlds of politics and sports for saying that football players who kneel during the national anthem should be fired.
The conflict peaked Sunday with Trump's remarks, which had the effect of uniting a newly minted opposition coalition that included a growing number of players and coaches, as well as some owners who have backed the president.
"Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, you'd say, 'Get that son of a b---- off the field right now.
He's fired,'" Trump said at a rally in Alabama.
His comments sparked a firestorm of criticism from several angles, with professional athletes across multiple leagues, NFL owners and even league Commissioner Roger Goodell joining in a chorus to call Trump's remarks "divisive" and "disrespectful."
See It: NFL Players Protest After Trump's Criticism

The Pittsburgh Steelers remained in the locker room while members of the Chicago Bears stood locked arm-in-arm during the national anthem ahead of Sunday's game at Soldier Field.
"We're not going to play politics," Steelers head coach Mike Tomlin told CBS ahead of the game.
"We're football players, we're football coaches.
We're not participating in the anthem today - not to be disrespectful to the anthem, but to remove ourselves from the circumstance."
One member of the Steelers did choose to stand for the anthem Sunday despite his team's decision, as offensive tackle Alejandro Villanueva - a former Army ranger - stood just outside the players' tunnel with his hand over his heart.
The Chicago Bears initially remained quiet on the issue, deferring to Goodell's statement Saturday, but chairman George McCaskey issued a response Sunday, ahead of the game against the Steelers and after Trump doubled down on his remarks in a series of early-morning tweets.
"The Chicago Bears are proud to support our players, coaches and all members of our organization to bring peace and unity together through football," he said.
"What makes this the greatest country in the world are the liberties it was founded upon and the freedom to express oneself in a respectful and peaceful manner.
Through important dialogue with our players and team, this divisive political situation has unified our franchise for the present and the future."
At the first football game of the day in London, at least seven members of the Baltimore Ravens and more than a dozen Jacksonville Jaguars took a knee during the anthem as the other players stood with arms locked together.
The rest of the day's games saw more protests, with the Seattle Seahawks and the Tennessee Titans later joining the Steelers in remaining in their respective locker rooms as a team during the anthem before their game.
"These are very divisive times for our country and you know, for us as a football team, it's about us remaining solid.
We're not gonna be divided by anything said by anyone," Tomlin said.
"People shouldn't have to choose," he continued.
"If a guy wants to go about his normal business and participate in the anthem, he shouldn't be forced to choose sides.
If a guy feels the need to do something, he shouldn't be separated from his teammate who chooses not to."
Protests of this nature started when then-San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick sat, then kneeled, for the playing of the anthem beginning in Aug. 2016 to call attention to the oppression of minorities across the United States.
Kaepernick's actions sparked a national conversation that several other NFL players have joined, protesting on multiple occasions and continuing even after Kaepernick became a free agent at the end of the season.
Soldier Field was the site of one such demonstration last September, when members of the Philadelphia Eagles raised their fists in the air during the anthem ahead of their game against the Bears.
Jose Fernandez's close friends and family members, including his mother, say September 25th doesn't feel any different for them because every day since the Marlins pitcher's death has been just as painful.
Monday marks one year since the slugger's 32-foot See Vee plowed into a jetty in South Florida, killing him and two others.
Friends and family visited the site Sunday to remember the 24-year-old as well as Emilio Jesus Macias, 27, and Eduardo Rivero, 25.
Among the many tearful faces, there was only one innocent smile: that of his 7-month-old daughter, Penelope.
Shes exactly like him: her smile, her expressions, said Iliana de la Cruz, a family friend.
He always said he wanted his daughter to have his mothers blue eyes, and she has his blue eyes.
Hernandez's girlfriend, Maria Arias, was pregnant when he was killed.
She gave birth to Penelope five months after his death.
Even though he cant see her, I know that wherever he is, he is watching over her and protecting her, said Maritza Gomez-Fernandez, Fernandezs mother.
It has been a painful year for those who knew the Marlins pitcher and icon for the Cuban-American community.
He was only 24-years-old when his highly-promising baseball career ended in a violent boat crash.
His legacy remains a topic of debate ever since investigators revealed that Fernandez had alcohol and cocaine in his system when the boat he was operating boat struck a jetty at 65 mph, killing all three passengers on board.
On Sunday, Fernandezs loved ones chose to remember him as a kind soul who put his family above all else.
Its a legacy they will transmit to the baby girl he never met.
Anything she needs to know, I will be there to hell her, said Gomez-Fernandez, because I am the best person to tell her fathers story.
He instilled in all of us, his fans, his friends, his family, joy, comfort and he did something to us, he changed our lives forever, de la Cruz said.
The family plans to return to Government Cut on Monday morning, but will spend the rest of the day mourning privately.
AP reporters counted more than 200 NFL players who did not stand during the national anthem before their games on Sunday.
Six refused to stand the week before, mainly protesting police brutality.
Jets and Giants players locked arms at their respective games in a show of solidarity with NFL players across the country.
Katherine Creag reports.
(Published Monday, Sept. 25, 2017)

What to Know President Trump sparked outrage after he said NFL players who kneel during the national anthem should be fired

In response, players from across the country, including from the Giants and Jets, showed support for the protests during games Sunday

The Jets and Giants released statements showing solidarity with the players

Jets and Giants players locked arms at their respective games Sunday in a show of solidarity with NFL players across the country, dozens of whom demonstrated during the national anthem following inflammatory comments this weekend from President Trump.
At the Jets home opener, players from the Jets and Miami Dolphins both interlocked arms and knelt during the playing of the national anthem.
Members of the Giants and Philadelphia Eagles also locked arms at their game.
Some fans raised their fists to show support.
Giants co-owners John Mara and Steve Tisch released a joint statement Saturday, saying they take issue with Trumps statement.
Comments like we heard last night from the president are inappropriate, offensive and divisive.
We are proud of our players, the vast majority of whom use their NFL platform to make a positive difference in our society, the statement read.
NFL Players Link Arms After Trump's Comments

President Trump's criticism of players who kneel during the national anthem sparked a mass increase in such protests around the NFL.
Ida Siegal reports.
(Published Monday, Sept. 25, 2017)

Jets officials came under criticism after they were initially silent following the presidents remarks.
In a statement, New York City Comptroller Scott Stringer said hes been a Jets fan all his life, but through all the seasons, what has disappointed me the most has been the last 36 hours and ownerships failure to condemn President Trumps hateful words.
Im shocked ownership would fail to reject hate from this White House, Stringer said in the statement.
On Sunday afternoon, Jets Chairman and CEO Christopher Johnson released a statement accompanied by photos of him locking arms with players.
It was an honor and a privilege to stand arm-in-arm unified with our players during todays National Anthem.
We are very proud of our players and their strong commitment to work in our community to make a positive, constructive, and unifying impact, the statement read.
NFL players, coaches, owners and executives have used the anthems to show solidarity in the wake of comments Trump made about players who kneel during the anthem.
The president said those players should be fired and that football fans should boycott the NFL if the protests continue.
Trump NFL Remarks Spark Tidal Wave of Protest

More than 100 NFL players across the country knelt in protest Sunday following President Trump's controversial comments about NFL players who kneel in protest during the national anthem.
Ken Buffa reports.
(Published Sunday, Sept. 24, 2017)

Trumps initial remarks came at a rally Friday night, when he said: Wouldnt you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, Somebody get that son-of-a-b---- off the field right now, out!
Hes fired.
A handful of NFL players have refused to stand during the anthem to protest several issues, including police brutality.
But that number ballooned Sunday following the presidents two-day weekend rant that continued Saturday with the president rescinding a White House invitation for the NBA champion Golden State Warriors over star Stephen Curry's critical comments of him.
The movement started more than a year ago when former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick refused to stand during the national anthem as a protest to police treatment of racial minorities.
This season, no team has signed him, and some supporters believe NFL owners are avoiding him because of the controversy.
Those who have followed the drama unfolding this weekend between the president and athletes expressed varying views of the protests.
"I am an American, number one, and I understand where that feeling comes from," said Stephanie Deperna, of Albany.
"But at the same time, being a minority, I understand the feeling on the other side too."
"The stand-down, should it be illegal?
But you should have respect for your country.
Support your brother," Joseph Fasolina, of Plainview, said.
Protesters Rally Outside Giants-Eagles Game

People "took a knee" outside Lincoln Financial Field to show support for protesting players and to condemn comments President Trump made this weekend, including remarks that kneeling players should be fired.
(Published Sunday, Sept. 24, 2017)

Others were simply taken aback by Trump's attacks on players and his calls for an NFL boycott.
"I was shocked.
That's not something you'd think you'd hear from the president," said Larry Reviera, of Brooklyn.
And some wanted to steer clear of the conversation altogether.
"Football and politics should stay on opposite ends," said New Rochelle resident Steve Stone.
As he left his golf course in Bedminster, New Jersey, for Washington, D.C., on Sunday, Trump addressed criticism his comments are inflaming racial tensions.
"This has nothing to do with race," he said.
"I've never said anything about race.
This has nothing to do with race or anything else.
This has to do with respect for our country and respect for our flag."
Meanwhile, some NASCAR team owners including Richard Childress and Richard Petty sided with Trump, saying they would fire any employee who didn't stand for the anthem.
After days of criticism from President Donald Trump, NFL players knelt and protested in other ways during the national anthem of their games.
The protests began with players from the Baltimore Ravens and the Jacksonville Jaguars, who were playing in London, kneeling as the national anthem played before kickoff.
Before the games, Trump criticized the NFL on Twitter, calling for fans to boycott the league if players protest and saying, "many stay away because they love our country.
League should back U.S."

Take a look at which players from which team took a stand, or didn't, against Trump's comments.
AP reporters counted more than 200 NFL players who did not stand during the national anthem before their games on Sunday.
Six refused to stand the week before, mainly protesting police brutality.
Bruce Maxwell of the Oakland Athletics discusses why he chose to become the first MLB player to take a knee during the playing of the national anthem.
Oakland Athletics' catcher Bruce Maxwell on Saturday took a knee during the playing of the national anthem, marking the first time a Major League Baseball player has performed such an act.
Footage captured before Oakland's contest against the Texas Rangers featured Maxwell, the son of an Army officer, drop to one knee and hold his hat against his heart while teammate Mark Canha lowered his hand on Maxwell's shoulder.
Maxwell's decision comes on the heels of President Donald Trump suggesting that NFL owners should fire any player who chooses to kneel for the national anthem.
Players across the NFL have been taking a knee, sitting or hoisting their fists into the air during the anthem ever since former San Francisco 49ers' quarterback Colin Kaepernick refused to stand for the anthem last fall in protest of racial injustice and unfair policing.
"The only platform right now that seems to be getting people's attention is athletes kneeling during the anthem, so I'm doing my part in doing that in baseball," Maxwell said after the game.
Bob Melvin, the manager of the A's, said Maxwell addressed the team before Saturday's contest and let them know about his plans to drop to one knee.
Melvin said some members of the squad had questions but added that Maxwell handled the situation "really well" and the team felt "comfortable" when all was said and done.
Khris Davis, a left fielder for the A's, applauded Maxwell for bravely following through.
"I thought it was very courageous," Davis said.
"I respect his decision."
Maxwell, who admitted that taking a knee for the national anthem was "one of the hardest things I've ever had to do," is not worried about the expected backlash coming his way.
"The end of the matter is, when people voice their opinions and it ruffles some feathers a little bit, then negativity always comes through, but at the same time, that's what's needed to make a change," he said.
Maxwell was born in Wiesbaden, Germany, while his father was stationed there in the Army.
He later moved to Alabama, where he attended high school and college.
Maxwell's agent, Matt Sosnick, told The Associated Press that "the Maxwells' love and appreciation for our country is indisputable."
"Bruce has made it clear that he is taking a stand about what he perceives as racial injustices in this country, and his personal disappointment with President Trump's response to a number of professional athletes' totally peaceful, non-violent protests.
"Bruce has shared with both me and his teammates that his feelings have nothing to do with a lack of patriotism or a hatred of any man, but rather everything to do with equality for men, women and children regardless of race or religion."
Maxwell took to Twitter earlier Saturday and wrote, "Don't be surprised if you start seeing athletes kneeling in other sports now!!
Comments like that coming from our president.
"Inequality is being displayed bigger than ever right now as our president shows that freeedom (sic) of protest and speech is not allowed..," Maxwell wrote in another tweet.
Minutes before Maxwell put his plan into action, the A's issued a statement of backing.
"The Oakland A's pride ourselves on being inclusive," the statement read.
"We respect and support all of our players' constitutional rights and freedom of expression."
Major League Baseball also issued a statement, saying it has "a longstanding tradition of honoring our nation prior to the start of our games" but that "we also respect that each of our players is an individual with his own background, perspectives and opinions."
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
President Donald Trump held a rally in Huntsville, Alabama, Friday night to endorse Sen. Luther Strange.
Here are some key moments from his speech.
Colin Kaepernick's mother has nothing but pride for her son's form of protest, despite President Donald Trump's critique of it.
At a rally in Alabama Friday night Trump said NFL owners should fire players who kneel, as Kaepernick did throughout the 2016 season, during the anthem and fans should consider walking out in protest

"Get that son of a b---- off the field right now.
He's fired!
He's fired!"
Trump said.
Replying to a tweet about a news article about Trump's comments, Kaepernick's mother Teresa Kaepernick said: "Guess that makes me a proud b----!"
Construction Begins on Border Wall Prototypes

South of San Diego, builders have started construction on eight prototypes of the US-Mexico border wall promised by President Donald Trump, and area officials are preparing for possible crowds of protesters.
(Published 2 hours ago)

She was not the only one who spoke out against Trump.
NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell, along with the NFL players' union, said Trump's comments are "divisive."
Many of the NFL players also joined in criticizing Trump.
Seattle Seahawks cornerback Richard Sherman tweeted: "The behavior of the President is unacceptable and needs to be addressed.
If you do not Condemn this divisive Rhetoric you are Condoning it!!"
Kaepernick's sideline protests became a national topic last year when said that he will not stand up "to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color."
On his first address to the United Nation's General Assembly, President Donald Trump called for more countries to join together against North Korea and Iran, and for Venezuela to restore "democracy and political freedoms."
(Published Tuesday, Sept. 19, 2017)

France has become the first nation participating in the 2018 Olympic Games in Pyeongchang, South Korea, to express doubts about going, given the ongoing tensions with North Korea, Reuters reported.
If the nuclear crisis deepens and "our security cannot be assured, the French Olympics team will stay at home," French Sports Minister Laura Flessel said Thursday on French radio.
But "we're not there yet," she added.
The games are being held in February just 50 miles from the heavily armed demilitarized zone between North and South Korea, currently trading threats  also involving the United States  after the north's recent nuclear and missile tests.
"Safety and security is one of the most important aspects of Games preparations," a spokesman for the organizing committee told Reuters in a statement.
Here's the Olympic Torch Relay Route to Pyeongchang
Twelve-time NBA All-Star guard Dwyane Wade plans to sign with the Cleveland Cavaliers once he clears waivers on Wednesday, league sources told ESPN.
Wade, who agreed to a contract buyout with the Chicago Bulls on Sunday, will be a unrestricted free agent and will sign a one-year, $2.3 million veterans minimum deal to reunite with LeBron James, league sources said.
Wade's relationship with James, cemented during four seasons and two NBA titles together with the Heat, pushed the Cavaliers past the Oklahoma City Thunder, San Antonio Spurs and Miami in pursuit of Wade.
Wade, a three-time NBA champion and MVP of the 2006 NBA Finals, will join a formidable Cavaliers roster with James, Kevin Love, JR Smith and Tristan Thompson.
The Cavs will be without injured All-Star point guard Isaiah Thomas until at least January.
The team will initially cut a nonguaranteed training camp invitee to make room for Wade on the 20-man training camp roster, a Cavs source told ESPN.
It will need to make an additional move beyond that to make space for him on the 15-man regular-season roster.
Cavaliers coach?Tyronn Lue said it will be a challenge with all the new players added to the Cavaliers' roster this offseason, but he and his players are up for it.
"Anytime you get new pieces and new players, it's always challenging, but I'm up for the challenge, and so are the players," he said.
"We will figure it out.
It will be a good year for us."
Thompson said he expects Wade will fit in well.?
"He's pretty familiar with most of the guys on our team, whether playing against or playing with," he said.
"I think he's going to jell pretty well.
He's a veteran.
He's always been a good locker room guy.
We've never heard anything bad.
"It would be great for our team to have another championship-mentality player on our team.
It's just more pieces to the puzzle."
Wade averaged 18 points for the Bulls last season.
In 14 seasons, he has averaged 23.3 points, 5.7 assists and 4.8 rebounds a game.
Wade, 35, gave back $8 million of his $23.8 million 2017-18 salary to reach a buyout agreement with the Bulls, league sources said.
ESPN's Dave McMenamin contributed to this report.
NASCAR Cup driver Brad Keselowski, who often delivers passionate -- and sometimes controversial -- takes on the sport and society, wanted to make sure his fans know why he stands for the national anthem, as he posted a series of tweets Tuesday night on the issue.
Keselowski had tried to explain in a tweet Sunday how he feels about protests during the national anthem.
The Team Penske driver, who penned a blog on the issue a year ago, didn't tweet much more, but he felt compelled to comment after reading the opinion of a Huffington Post contributor that white athletes who don't protest are standing for white supremacy.
Keselowski started with a screenshot of the story and stating: "My reps want me to stay out of this, I CAN'T.
2 all my friends & supporters, I support your civil rights 100% PLEASE DON'T believe this."
Most drivers have refrained from approaching the issue on social media, but Dale Earnhardt Jr.?put out a tweet that supported the right to protest:

Earnhardt responded to a follower on Twitter who said he commented on the issue because some owners had spoken on it, including Richard Petty and Richard Childress, who?indicated that they would fire any of their employees who protested during the national anthem.
Earnhardt also tweeted a video, without comment, of his dog sitting in front of a flagpole that had a U.S. flag on it.
Denny Hamlin posted a video of the national anthem being played, and the players standing, prior to a basketball game on a court at his home.
NASCAR does not have a specific policy or rule about what its drivers must do during the national anthem, although it asks its drivers and crews to stand in a line by their cars or at their pit stalls.
Drivers are given five minutes to get into their cars after the anthem is played and before the engines are fired for them to begin the pace laps for the race.
"Sports are a unifying influence in our society, bringing people of differing backgrounds and beliefs together," NASCAR said in a statement Monday.
"Our respect for the national anthem has always been a hallmark of our pre-race events.
"Thanks to the sacrifices of many, we live in a country of unparalleled freedoms and countless liberties, including the right to peacefully express one's opinion."
GREEN BAY, Wis. -- Aaron Rodgers and his Green Bay Packers teammates are asking fans at Lambeau Field for Thursday night's game against the Chicago Bears to join them in linking arms during the national anthem.
Most Packers players did that on the sideline before Sunday's game against the?
Cincinnati Bengals, though three players -- Martellus Bennett, Lance Kendricks and Kevin King -- sat on the bench.
In a statement released Tuesday night, the players said coaches and staff will join them with arms intertwined to represent a coming together of people who want "freedom, equality, tolerance, understanding and justice for those who have been unjustly treated, discriminated against or otherwise treated unfairly."
"Those of us joining arms on Thursday will be different in so many ways, but one thing that binds us together is that we are all individuals who want to help make our society, our country and our world a better place," the players said in the statement.
"We believe that in diversity there can be UNI-versity.
Intertwined, we represent the many people who helped build this country, and we are joining together to show that we are ready to continue to build.
"Let's work together to build a society that is more fair and just."
The statement, which called the NFL family "one of the most diverse communities in the world," noted how the game of football brings people together.
"The eclectic group of players that you root for, the coaches you admire, the people you sit next to in the stands, those high-fiving on military bases, fans at the sports bar or during tailgate parties -- we all come from different walks of life and have unique backgrounds and stories," the statement said.?
"The game of football brings people together.
As NFL players, we are a living testimony that individuals from different backgrounds and with different life experiences can work together toward a common goal."?
Rodgers, speaking before the players' statement was released, said what they are doing is not a protest.
"This is about equality," the QB said.
"This is about unity and love and growing together as a society and starting a conversation around something that may be a little bit uncomfortable for people.
But we've got to come together and talk about these things and grow as a community, as a connected group of individuals in our society, and we're going to continue to show love and unity, and this week we're going to ask the fans to join in as well and come together and show people that we can be connected and we can grow together."
It's likely all the players -- even the ones who sat during the anthem on Sunday -- will participate Thursday.?
"I think it was Marty's [Bennett's] idea," said Kendricks, who said he sat during the anthem to bring awareness to people in Puerto Rico affected by Hurricane Maria.
"Aaron spoke first and he kind of laid it out and laid out the fact that he's on our side and he understands the message being conveyed and trying to get across.
And then Marty wrote a statement and in the statement he said we're going to lock arms and he's going to challenge the fans to lock arms as well, so it kind of puts them in a position where it's like, 'Look you're either going to unite with us or you're not.'
I think that's really cool because it puts them in a position where it's like now we're talking to you, so you make a decision, peacefully make a decision."
Rodgers called the team meeting about it "fantastic."
"We kind of talked about a lot of things -- things I'm not going to talk about because it's meant for just the locker room -- but I think there's been a great sense of unity and love and support in this locker room, guys coming together," Rodgers said.
"Outside the building, I think the message has been diluted a little bit and it's been kind of taken away from what we were trying to do: show a united front, guys linking up together.
There's been a lot of hatred on my social media, probably other people's social media as well.
Frankly don't understand it, a lot of it."
OWINGS MILLS, Md.
-- Baltimore Ravens national anthem singer Joey Odoms resigned Tuesday at a time when protests during the song have generated strong emotions across the country.
"The tone/actions of a large number of NFL fans in the midst of our country's cultural crisis have convinced me that I do not belong there," Odoms wrote on Facebook.
"Someone once told me to always 'go where you're welcomed.'"
Odoms, who is African-American, is a member of the Maryland National Guard.
When he was a soldier in Afghanistan, Odoms met John Harbaugh and informed the Ravens coach?that he wanted to be the team's next national anthem singer.
Odoms' decision comes two days after 13 Ravens players took a knee during the national anthem for the first time.
This generated intense and mixed responses from the team's fan base.
Some have threatened to sell their tickets and burn Ravens jerseys.
Others have supported the players' right to protest.
A Ravens spokesman confirmed that Odoms had informed the team he was stepping down after being the primary national anthem singer at M&T Bank Stadium for the past three seasons.
"We greatly appreciate the work Joey did for us, and we thank him," the team said in a statement.
The Ravens need to find a new singer for Sunday, when the team plays host to the AFC North rival Pittsburgh Steelers.
"This is not an emotional reaction to recent events, rather an ethical decision that part of me regrets but my core knows is the right choice," Odoms posted on Facebook.
"Thank you so much for the opportunity to grow as a performer and for allowing me to live out a dream of sharing my gift with you."
University of Arizona assistant basketball coach Emanuel Richardson entered the federal court wearing the same clothes he was arrested in earlier in the day, there to face charges of accepting bribes and paying at least one recruit to attend the school.
Across the country, nine other people, including three more assistant coaches, were arrested after a federal probe revealed hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes to influence star athletes' choice of schools, shoe sponsors, agents, even tailors.
The arrests will have an immediate  and potentially long-lasting  impact on the programs involved.
As the tentacles of the probe reach deeper into college basketball, more schools could come into the crosshairs and the black eye on the sport could darken.
"The picture of college basketball painted by the charges is not a pretty one," acting U.S. Attorney Joon H. Kim said.
Richardson, along with fellow assistant coaches Chuck Person of Auburn, Southern California's Tony Bland and Oklahoma State's Lamont Evans were all suspended after charges against them were announced.
James Gatto, director of global sports marketing for basketball at Adidas, Rashan Michel, a maker of custom suits for some of the NBA's biggest stars, and various financial advisers and managers also were charged.
Federal prosecutors said at least three top high school recruits were promised payments of as much as $150,000, using money supplied by Adidas, to attend two universities sponsored by the athletic shoe company.
Court papers didn't name the schools but contained enough details to identify them as Louisville and Miami.
Louisville is already under NCAA probation over a sex scandal after an investigation into a Cardinals staffer hiring escorts for sex parties and to strip for recruits and players.
The NCAA said Louisville must vacate up to 123 victories earned with ineligible players and suspended Louisville coach Rick Pitino five games for failing to monitor staffer Andre McGee.
Pitino also had to testify in 2010 in a federal extortion trial for the wife of the school's equipment manager, when he acknowledged under oath to having an extramarital affair with her in a Louisville restaurant.
Pitino is not named in the federal documents, though the school acknowledged it is under investigation by the FBI.
"These allegations come as a complete shock to me.
If true, I agree with the U.S. Attorney's Office that these third-party schemes, initiated by a few bad actors, operated to commit a fraud on the impacted universities and their basketball programs, including the University of Louisville," Pitino said in a statement.
"Our fans and supporters deserve better and I am committed to taking whatever steps are needed to ensure those responsible are held accountable."
But, as the leader of the program, Pitino could end up taking the blame if the allegations prove to be true.
The NCAA could also give Louisville the death penalty, grounding the basketball powerhouse.
Auburn coach Bruce Pearl could face similar heat.
He coached at Tennessee from 2005-11 before being fired and hit with a three-year show-cause penalty by the NCAA for lying to investigators about recruiting violations.
Pearl was given a second chance at Auburn, but another scandal could spell trouble for him if the allegations are proven true.
Regardless of whether the federal probe leads all the way to the top, the programs could take a hit  and not just from the NCAA.
With the prospect of an NCAA investigation on the horizon, top recruits may stay away.
Current players in the programs could be declared ineligible if the probe finds they accepted money from an agent or an assistant coach.
Arizona coach Sean Miller has one of the top recruiting classes for 2018, and the Wildcats have been projected to be a top-10 team this season.
Andy Enfield has a strong incoming recruiting class at Southern California and has a potential top-10 team this season.
The trajectory of the two Pac-12 programs could be altered as the probe deepens.
And the initial charges could be just the tip of the iceberg.
More programs and coaches could be entangled as the FBI digs deeper, and schools where the arrested coaches previously worked could face scrutiny.
The FBI and U.S. attorneys have the reach and the power to expand the investigation.
It has also set up a tip line and encouraged anyone with information on the case to come forward.
This is far from over, and the implications could last for years.
More AP college basketball: http://collegebasketball.ap.org and http://www.twitter.com/APTop25
The seamy underbelly of college basketball has always existed, despite the halfhearted and mostly futile efforts by the NCAA to make sure everybody plays fair.
Now that it's finally been penetrated by real lawmen, the only question is how many people the FBI ends up taking down.
The number stood at 10 Tuesday after federal prosecutors moved to arrest, among others, a top Adidas executive, and assistant basketball coaches from Arizona, Auburn, the University of Southern California and Oklahoma State.
They are charged in a bribery scheme to steer future NBA players toward selected sports agents and financial advisers.
But with mentions of people associated with the University of Louisville and University of Miami caught on wiretaps scheming to pay players as much as $150,000 to come to their schools, there figures to be a lot of nervous people in college basketball waiting for the other, er, shoe to drop.
Make no mistake about it.
These aren't bumbling NCAA inspectors leading the investigation into shady agents, shoe companies and unscrupulous coaches.
These are FBI agents and U.S. attorneys with great powers of both subpoena and persuasion.
Their investigation is not done and anyone leaning on the fence about whether to cooperate will have to balance their loyalty to programs with the very real fact they might go to prison if they don't fess up.
And fess up they will.
A day of reckoning may be coming for some big programs, and some big-name coaches.
If the allegations are true  and there seem to be a lot of wiretaps supporting them  it could also mean the end of Rick Pitino's coaching career and possibly the end of Louisville's powerhouse basketball program.
Yes, it looks as if Pitino is in trouble again, just months after the NCAA ordered the school to vacate its 2013 national title because strippers danced and performed sex acts for recruits and players.
Pitino was also suspended for five conference games and the school's basketball program put on four years' probation, actions he claimed were unjust because he said he knew nothing about what was going on.
Defiant then, he claims to be shocked now.
Pitino issued an incredibly tone-deaf statement Tuesday blaming "a few bad actors," and painting the university and his program as victims of a "third-party scheme."
Guess you can only blame rogue assistant coaches for so long.
Louisville is the school named in the complaint as University 6, where the family of a top basketball recruit was allegedly promised $100,000 in late May or early June if he signed with the school.
The FBI said it recorded a meeting in July where an assistant coach at Louisville was briefed on a plan to funnel thousands of dollars to the recruit's family, and the participants in the meeting noted they had to be careful because Louisville was already on probation.
According to the complaint filed in the Southern District of New York, the money was to be funneled through Adidas, whose director of basketball marketing was charged in the filing.
Just last month, Louisville and Adidas reached agreement on a 10-year, $160 million contract to equip and sponsor the school's sports teams.
Louisville announced on June 3 the unexpected signing of recruit Brian Bowen, who hadn't been considering the university previously.
Pitino at the time bragged to a local radio station he didn't have to spend a dime on recruiting visits for Bowen.
"In my 40 years coaching this is the luckiest I've ever been," Pitino said.
Pitino may not be feeling so lucky now.
If the allegations are proven the NCAA may have no choice but to can Pitino and give Louisville the death penalty, eliminating basketball at the perennial national contender.
Just as interesting were details in the complaint that outed Miami as the university where Adidas and another unnamed apparel company were involved in a bidding war for a 2018 recruit that reached $150,000.
The allegations shouldn't be a shock to anyone who has been around an incestuous sport laden with snake oil shoe salesmen, millionaire coaches and sleazy recruiters.
It's a place where business has always been conducted with handfuls of cash behind closed doors, with the powerless NCAA seemingly unable to do anything but count the billion dollars or so it gets each year for allowing the scam.
Now it's being exposed in a way that not long ago would have been unfathomable.
Now people are likely going to be sent to prison instead of being scolded by the NCAA.
That's a seismic change in the way punishment is handed out in big-time college athletics.
And it should make a lot of people in the sport very nervous.
Tim Dahlberg is a national sports columnist for The Associated Press.
Write to him at tdahlberg@ap.org or http://twitter.com/timdahlberg
President Donald Trump says he has spoken to Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones amid his extended attacks on NFL players for kneeling during the national anthem.
On Twitter Wednesday, Trump says the two spoke Tuesday.
He says: "Jerry is a winner who knows how to get things done.
Players will stand for Country!"
On Monday night, Jones  a supporter of Trump  and his players knelt, arm-in-arm, before the anthem, then rose for the playing of the song ahead of the team's victory at the Arizona Cardinals.
Trump has spent days lashing out at players who kneel, a practice that started with a handful of players to protest racial issues, including police brutality.
Responding to Trump, hundreds of players have been sitting, kneeling, locking arms or remaining in locker rooms.
Together again: LeBron and D-Wade.
Just like old times.
Dwyane Wade has decided to sign with the Cleveland Cavaliers and reunite with LeBron James, a person familiar with the situation told the Associated Press on Tuesday night.
Wade is expected to clear waivers on Wednesday and then join the Cavs, according to the person who spoke on condition of anonymity because the deal cannot be completed until the 12-time All-Star goes through the waiver process.
In Cleveland, Wade will be reunited with James, his close friend, former Miami teammate and a player he confided in before signing with his hometown Chicago Bulls last year.
Wade and James won two NBA titles together during four seasons with the Heat and will now chase another one with the Cavs, who have been revamped after losing to Golden State in last season's Finals.
On Monday, James said he would love to play with Wade again.
"He brings another championship pedigree, championship DNA," James said at Cleveland's media day.
"He brings another player to the team who can get guys involved, can make plays and also has a great basketball mind.
I hope we can bring him here.
I would love to have him."
Once Wade completes the waiver formality, he'll be the latest high-profile player to join the Cavs, who traded for All-Star point guard Isaiah Thomas, signed former league MVP Derrick Rose and added two strong wing defenders in Jae Crowder and Jeff Green, who could help them defend the Warriors if those teams get back to a fourth straight Finals matchup.
Thomas isn't expected to play until January because of a hip injury, but until he returns the Cavs have plenty of firepower in James, Wade, Rose and All-Star Kevin Love, who could thrive as Cleveland's No.
2 scoring threat now that Kyrie Irving is in Boston.
Wade agreed to a contract buyout earlier this week with the Bulls, who signed him before last season as a free agent.
He'll get a veteran's minimum contract worth $2.3 million with Cleveland, which now has a surplus of shooting guards with Wade, J.R. Smith and Kyle Korver and Iman Shumpert on the roster.
Cavs coach Tyronn Lue has depth and decisions to make.
"There's a challenge every year when you add new guys and add all the guys we added," Lue said.
"Four or five new guys, it's always tough and challenging.
Anytime you get new pieces and new players it's always challenging, but I'm up for the challenge and so are the players.
We will figure it out.
It will be a good year for us."
The Cavaliers emerged Tuesday as front-runners over the Heat and Oklahoma City Thunder to land the 35-year-old Wade, who many feel has plenty of game left.
He'll now have a shot at another championship  his fourth  while playing alongside James, whom he has been friends with since they broke into the league together in 2003.
When James left Cleveland as a free agent in 2010 and signed with Miami, much of his reason for leaving his home state was a chance to play with Wade and Chris Bosh.
Wade played his first 13 seasons in Miami, leaving in the summer of 2016 to sign a two-year deal with the Bulls.
But the Bulls are in a rebuilding mode after trading Jimmy Butler this summer, and instead of paying Wade $23.8 million to play for what likely will be a struggling team they agreed this weekend to buy him out and let him find a better situation.
In an interview with The Associated Press, Wade said whatever decision he makes would be "a pure basketball decision and I'll make the one that I feel fits me best at this point in my career and with what I feel I have to offer a team that needs what I have to offer."
Following practice on Tuesday, Cavaliers forward Tristan Thompson said Wade would be a great fit in Cleveland.
"He's a guy that's proven, not just individually, but a team that won three championships," Thompson said.
"He's pretty familiar with most of the guys on our team.
He's always been a good locker room guy.
We've never heard anything bad.
"It would be great for our team to have another championship-mentality player."
Wade has averaged 23.3 points, 4.8 rebounds and 5.7 assists in 14 seasons.
He averaged 18.3, 4.5 rebounds and 3.8 assists for the Bulls.
One of the game's premiere closers in the postseason, Wade has averaged 22.5 points, 5.3 rebounds and 5.0 assists in 172 playoff games.
AP Sports Writer Tim Reynolds contributed to this report.
More AP basketball: https://apnews.com/tag/NBAbasketball
Panthers team captains and other selected players met with owner Jerry Richardson at his home Tuesday to "discuss social issues affecting the league and solutions moving forward."
Carolina spokesman Steven Drummond said the conversations between the players and owner will remain private.
Richardson was one of the last NFL owners to release a statement in response to comments made by President Trump on Twitter regarding NFL players.
The meeting was prompted by some players privately expressing frustration over not being able to express their views on social issues while playing for the Panthers for fear of potential repercussions.
A year ago, backup safety Marcus Ball raised his fist in support of Colin Kaepernick, who knelt during the national anthem to protect social injustices.
The following week he was released by the Panthers.
While hundreds of players around the NFL protested Trump's tweets, none of Carolina's players participated in pre-game protests on Sunday except 17-year veteran Julius Peppers.
Peppers decided to remain in the tunnel for the national anthem, but told none of his teammates of his plan.
The 81-year-old Richardson prefers to keep politics and sports separate.
Even when he did release a statement on Monday  a day after 30 other owners had spoken out  it didn't make much reference to Trump's comments.
"We are proud of the men we have on this football team.
Our players have been active and impactful participants in making our community stronger," Richardson's statement read.
"From the first time I stepped into an NFL locker room at Memorial Stadium in Baltimore in 1959, I have lived and seen the sport's ability to bring people of all backgrounds together.
Politicizing the game is damaging and takes the focus off the greatness of the game itself and those who play it."
Richardson has remained largely private since his last press conference in January of 2011.
Peppers said Sunday he struggled with the decision to remain in the tunnel, but wanted to do something to support his NFL brothers.
He didn't tell his teammates of his plans because he didn't want others to feel pressured to do the same.
"I just thought it was appropriate to stay in because we know what went on this week with the comments that were made by the President and I felt like he attacked our brothers, my brothers in the league," Peppers said.
"So I felt like it was appropriate to stand up with them and stay in the locker room."
Peppers said he knows that some may not appreciate his stance, even if he wasn't trying to show disrespect to the American flag.
"A lot of people might be upset about it and that's fine," Peppers said.
"I'm not living my life out there trying to make everybody happy.
I'm doing things that I feel like are right and things that I believe in.
There are only a few times in a man's life where you have the chance to stand up for something that you believe in and make a statement so today I thought was that chance and I took it."
Several teammates hugged Peppers before the team's first defensive series.
When asked if he hoped an increase in demonstrations would increase dialogue about these issues, Peppers responded, "I hope so."
For more NFL coverage: http://www.pro32.ap.org and http://www.twitter.com/APNFL
The NHL has a clear message to coaches starting this season: Don't challenge an offside call unless you are really, really sure.
At times last season, coaches challenged on the off chance a goal would get called back or to at least give players a breather because all it cost was a timeout.
That is expected to change because, pending approval from the board of governors Wednesday, a failed offside challenge will instead result in a penalty as the league tries to get the coach's challenge closer to what it was intended to be.
Commissioner Gary Bettman said that last season, the second with coach's challenges for offside and goaltender interference, included an increase in the total number of reviews and the percentage that were not overturned.
"We're in effect trying to discourage using the coach's challenge on offside unless you're really 100 percent certain that you're going to win because it was a blown call," Bettman said.
"The coach's challenge was really intended to focus on glaring errors.
And by imposing a two-minute penalty if you're wrong, it should limit the number of challenges to those instances where there's a glaring error."
It's still not perfect because a coach who wants to take a chance can still claim goalie interference in some instances.
And there's still the concern that challenges take too long to figure out, but the league hopes fewer unneeded reviews make for a positive step forward.
Here are some other rule changes or points of emphasis this season:

NO TIMEOUT AFTER ICING

Since 2005, teams have been unable to make line changes after icing the puck, with the design of creating some extra offense from fatigue.
Coaches got around the rule by calling timeout to provide players some extra rest, but now that won't be allowed.
"That's consistent with the original intent of the icing rule that there was to be no substitution by the team that iced the puck," Bettman said.
"I think saying what we intended, namely if you iced the puck because you're tired, you're not going to get a break.
I think that works well."
Anaheim Ducks center Ryan Getzlaf doesn't think it'll cut down on icing but sees one place where the rule change will have an effect.
"The strategy's going to come on the offensive side," Getzlaf said.
"As soon as those pucks are iced, you're going to see coaches put out their top lines  much like they do now, but probably to a little bit stronger extent knowing that they can't call a timeout."
FACEOFF VIOLATIONS

This isn't a rule change, but officials will be calling players for not obeying the markings around faceoff circles.
It was a frequent penalty in the preseason because faceoffs are a haven for Dale Hunter's old adage of, "If you ain't cheating, you ain't trying."
Director of officiating Stephen Walkom said the goal is to get closer to the clean faceoffs from the late 1990s when the markings were first put in and make it safer for players and linesmen.
"Over time, the rule slowly eroded to where you have players using their hands, basically banging heads over the dots, encroaching so much on the faceoff that they're putting the linesman in danger of being slew-footed on almost every drop, going down on one knee," Walkom said.
"We're not trying to reinvent the rule.
We're just trying to reclaim some ice relative to the faceoff so that we can have a fair and competitive faceoff."
Washington Capitals center Lars Eller hopes it levels the playing field.
"I think it'll be a disadvantage to guys that like to get their skate in there to use as it a part of winning their faceoff because now you have to have it so far back that it's going to be hard," said Eller, who called himself a stick-only guy 80 percent of the time.
"Usually the guys that like to get the skate in there, they would be way over that red line.
You have to keep your foot back.
I think it's more of an advantage for guys that really only use their stick to win the faceoffs."
SLASHING

Broken fingers to Calgary's Johnny Gaudreau and Ottawa's Marc Methot last season because of slashes prompted concern that the problem had gotten out of hand.
On-ice officials and the league office will be taking a closer look at and calling more slashes in and around the hands to reduce injuries and improve the quality of play.
The league is always sort of looking to make the game safer and they're always looking to, in recent years, generate a little bit more offense," Carolina Hurricanes forward Jeff Skinner said.
"That's going to maybe create more scoring chances, if it doesn't create more power plays."
Follow Hockey Writer Stephen Whyno on Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/SWhyno



For more AP NHL coverage: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey
A combat veteran who has been the Baltimore Ravens' national anthem singer for the past three years has announced his resignation as debate continues about players kneeling during the national anthem.
The move by Joey Odoms comes days after players on the Ravens and many other NFL teams took a knee during the national anthem in response to President Donald Trump's call for team owners to fire players who don't stand for the anthem.
Odoms is a member of the Maryland Army National Guard.
He won a 2014 competition to become the anthem singer at Ravens' home games.
In a Facebook post Tuesday, Odoms said his resignation "is not an emotional reaction to recent events, rather an ethical decision."
Odoms told WJZ News that he is not offended by the players' actions, but did not want to get mixed up in the controversial discussion.
"I support the protest personally  I fought for that right, but I don't like people using people like me to attack those people who are exercising their right," he said.
"If I express how I feel, a segment of the fan base would attack me," he said.
A look at what's happening all around the majors today:



TRY AGAIN

Coming off a loss Tuesday night, the World Series champion Cubs make their second attempt at clinching a second straight NL Central title when veteran John Lackey (11-11, 4.67 ERA) pitches in St. Louis.
The rival Cardinals, who are 2?
games behind Colorado for the second NL wild card, counter with Michael Wacha (12-8, 4.00) as they try to prevent Chicago from celebrating on their home turf.
TEAM TURNAROUND

After going 59-103 last year, the worst record in the majors, the Twins (83-74) are on the cusp of grabbing the final American League playoff spot.
They can wrap up the second wild card and their first postseason berth since 2010 with a win at Cleveland or an Angels loss to the White Sox in Chicago.
Minnesota, which has won five in a row, will start rookie left-hander Adalberto Mejia (4-6, 4.48 ERA) against the AL Central champion Indians, who are one game ahead of Houston for home-field advantage throughout the AL playoffs.
The surprising Twins are the 13th team in big league history, and first since the 2009 Seattle Mariners, to go from 100-plus losses to a winning record the following season.
LOOKING AHEAD

Luis Severino (13-6, 3.03 ERA) gets a postseason tuneup for the Yankees when he starts against Tampa Bay with an eye toward his potential assignment in the AL wild-card game.
New York still hopes to chase down first-place Boston in the AL East, but is likely to host Minnesota in the one-game playoff next Tuesday night.
Severino has allowed one run or none in nine of 13 starts since the All-Star break, going 8-2 with a 2.34 ERA.
He will face the Rays on six days' rest.
LITTLE BIG MAN

AL West champion Houston hopes to have Jose Altuve back in the lineup at Texas after the All-Star second baseman didn't start Tuesday night.
Altuve, a leading contender for AL MVP, was hit by a 95 mph fastball Monday and left the game.
The team said X-rays were negative and he had a bruised left forearm.
Astros manager A.J.
Hinch said Tuesday the 5-foot-6 Altuve was fine, just sore.
Altuve leads the majors with a .348 batting average and needs one hit to reach 200 for the fourth straight season.
PROVE IT

A year after missing much of Cleveland's run to the World Series because of an injury, Danny Salazar is trying to show he's even worth a postseason roster spot.
The right-hander has been in and out of the rotation lately, and he's allowed five runs in 3 1/3 innings over his past two starts.
He'll get a chance to find his rhythm in a start against Minnesota.
POSTSEASON PREP

A couple of playoff-bound pitchers get their final tuneups before long layoffs.
Houston right-hander Justin Verlander tries to win his fifth straight start in a game against Texas, while Dodgers left-hander Rich Hill (1-8, 3.50) takes a 2.45 September ERA into a start against San Diego.
Both pitchers will then wait more than a week to pitch in the playoffs.
DRONING ON

It's that time of year in Cleveland  the Indians are chasing a World Series, LeBron James is gearing up for another season, and Trevor Bauer is talking about his drones.
Cleveland could do without the latter.
The righty lost a drone Monday in a suburban park, and posted a message on Twitter asking the person who took it to return it as soon as possible.
Last year, Bauer sliced open his right pinky tinkering with a drone during the ALCS and needed stitches.
He started Game 3 in Toronto, but didn't make it through the first inning before the cut opened, making it impossible for him to pitch.
More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball
Sharks forward Joel Ward told The Mercury News he might take a knee during the national anthem at an upcoming game, becoming the first NHL player to join the protests that started in the NFL and drew criticism from President Donald Trump.
The 36-year-old Ward, one of about 30 black players in the league, is from Canada.
Asked by the newspaper if he would consider kneeling during the anthem, Ward said it's something he "wouldn't cross out."
"I've experienced a lot of racism myself in hockey and on a day-to-day occurrence," he said.
"I haven't really sat down to think about it too much yet, but I definitely wouldn't say no to it."
Former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick began kneeling during the anthem in the preseason a year ago to make a statement about social inequality and police treatment of blacks in the United States.
More than 200 players knelt or took other action during Sunday's anthems in the wake of Trump's suggestion that NFL owners fire players who protest during "The Star-Spangled Banner."
Oakland Athletics catcher Bruce Maxwell became the first major league baseball player to take a knee during the national anthem Saturday.
Sharks coach Peter DeBoer said he would back Ward if he decides to take a knee this season.
Ward said general manager Doug Wilson also has been supportive.
The Minnesota Lynx were still stinging two days after they failed to grab a single rebound in the first quarter of their WNBA Finals-opening loss to the Los Angeles Sparks.
So Sylvia Fowles decided to grab them all in Game 2.
Fowles grabbed a Finals-record 17 rebounds and scored 13 points to lead the Lynx to a 70-68 victory over the Los Angeles Sparks on Tuesday night, evening the series at one game apiece.
"When we really put our minds to rebounding nobody can stop us.
I think that was fresh in my head," Fowles said, referring to the zero rebounds.
"My mindset was just crash the boards.
Every opportunity I got, crash the boards."
Fowles broke Taj McWilliams-Franklin's record of 16 for Connecticut in 2005.
Lindsay Whalen scored 14 points, Rebekkah Brunson had 12 and the Lynx held the defending champions to 38.7 percent shooting while bouncing back from a last-second loss in Game 1.
Candace Parker had 17 points, six assists and five rebounds for the Sparks, who had the ball and a chance to tie or take the lead with 13.1 seconds to play.
But Chelsea Gray lost the handle on her dribble for a turnover, one of two big ones by Los Angeles in the final 14 seconds.
"We didn't have the fight and grit in the first half that could match Minnesota," Sparks coach Brian Agler said.
"They set the tone early in the game and we have to respond better."
Gray scored 15 points for Los Angeles, and Nneka Ogwumike had 11 points on 3-for-13 shooting and 13 rebounds.
Lynx coach Cheryl Reeve torched her proud, veteran team on Monday after getting behind 28-2 in the first eight minutes on Sunday.
She took little solace in watching them rally to a late lead, saying any pats on the back were from "Loserville."
The Lynx responded in a major way in Game 2, grabbing a 15-point lead in the first eight minutes.
They held Ogwumike and Parker to a combined 0 for 11 in the first half and Los Angeles shot just 28 percent in the first two quarters.
But just like the Lynx didn't give up in Game 1, the Sparks wouldn't go away this time.
Parker capped an 11-3 run that cut Minnesota's lead to three with 1:21 to play and Brunson was whistled for a questionable foul on Parker on the next possession.
She converted both free throws to make it 70-68 and Maya Moore missed a jumper on the other end.
With Seimone Augustus hounding her, Alana Beard was whistled for a five-second call on the inbounds pass.
"I didn't see anyone open," Beard said.
"That said, my responsibility is to get the ball inbounds.
That's something I can't allow to happen."
The Sparks had one more shot, but Gray, who beat the Lynx with a jumper in the final seconds of Game 1, couldn't come up with the heroics for a second straight game.
After she lost the handle, Brunson poked the ball away and Moore scooped it up and tossed it ahead to Whalen to seal the win.
"Our defense saved us," Whalen said.
"We were one play better."
The Sparks are trying to become the first repeat champions since 2002, and they head home having earned a split at raucous Williams Arena.
ANTHEM STATEMENT

For the second straight game, the Sparks left the court just before "The Star Spangled Banner" started, a show of support for their NFL brethren who have come under withering criticism from President Donald Trump for using the national anthem as a vehicle to protest social injustice.
The Sparks were booed heavily as they exited the court and again as they reappeared after the song was over.
Ogwumike and Parker have said that the display is not meant to be derogatory toward the flag or American soldiers.
The Lynx locked arms in a show of unity before Game 1, but stood in line in normal fashion before Game 2.
UP NEXT

Game 3 is on Friday in Los Angeles.
THE TAKE with ABC News' Rick Klein If intra-party war is what they want, that is what they have.
Roy Moore 's win in Alabama moves a divided Republican Party even further in a Trumpian direction  further, in fact, than Trump himself would take it.
It's telling that, in celebrating Moore's victory,
Sharks forward Joel Ward told The Mercury News he might take a knee during the national anthem at an upcoming game, becoming the first NHL player to join the protests that started in the NFL and drew criticism from President Donald Trump.
The 36-year-old Ward, one of about 30 black players in the
Four assistant basketball coaches from Arizona, Auburn, Oklahoma State and Southern California were charged Tuesday morning in a federal corruption investigation, and that might only be the tip of the iceberg in a three-year FBI probe that focused on coaches being paid tens of thousands of dollars
Sharks forward Joel Ward told The Mercury News he might take a knee during the national anthem at an upcoming game, becoming the first NHL player to join the protests that started in the NFL and drew criticism from President Donald Trump.
The 36-year-old Ward, one of about 30 black players in the
Which we're we're getting excited to sports guys in here you know.
But Jones and write a very divisive topic indeed.
For years you know there's been reports.
Just actual players.
Just having this disease which is just hearing crop you know cross the spore and families in an ex players.
And hand
Now that the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York has formally announced its charges against four NCAA assistant basketball coaches, here's what we think we know going forward regarding the federal probe into corruption and fraud in college basketball.
What are the charges?
KANSAS CITY, Mo.
-- The Detroit Tigers' Jordan Zimmermann and the Kansas City Royals' Jason Hammel will start Wednesday in the middle contest of this three-game series.
The veteran right-handers, who own the same won-loss record, have struggled lately.
Zimmermann (8-13, 6.19 ERA) is 0-2 with an 8.00 ERA in his first two September starts, allowing eight runs on 17 hits over nine innings.
He had a 19-day layoff between the outings due to neck pain.
Opponents are hitting .395 off him with a .581 slugging percentage and a .990OPS this month.
In 11 starts in the second half of the season, Zimmermann is 3-6 with a 6.71 ERA, with opponents hitting .341 and producing a .909 OPS.
Zimmermann, however, has fared well against the Royals.
He is 3-0 with a 1.42 ERA in five career appearances (four starts) vs. Kansas City.
His only start against the Royals this season was July 17, when he picked up the victory at Kauffman Stadium, where he yielded one run on seven hits with seven strikeouts in 6 2/3 innings.
Hammel (8-13, 5.32 ERA) is 2-3 with an 8.64 ERA in five September starts, allowing nine doubles, one triple, four home runs and 45 hits over 25 innings.
Hammel won his first two starts this month, but he is 0-3 in his past three outings with a 12.79 ERA.
He has failed to make it out of the fourth inning in two of those three.
Opponents have scored 18 earned runs on 29 hits in 12 2/3 innings in that stretch with a .636 slugging percentage, a .432 batting average and a 1.095 OPS.
Hammel is 3-2 with a 6.27 ERA in 13 games (10 starts) versus Detroit, including 1-0, 4.03 in four turns this season.
The Tigers have lost eight straight, matching their season high.
They also dropped eight consecutive games from June 16-24.
Detroit (62-95) is battling the Philadelphia Phillies (63-95) and San Francisco Giants (62-96) for the worst record in the majors.
"None of that affects me," said Tigers manager Brad Ausmus, who has already been told he will not be back next year.
"I don't want to lose a hundred.
I don't want to lose tomorrow.
I'd rather win the last five games, quite frankly.
That's why I came to the field tonight.
"As far as the (top) draft pick goes, that doesn't affect me.
I certainly don't want the worst record."
While the Royals went to the 2014 and 2015 World Series, winning it all in 2015, they will not be returning to the postseason.
They beat the Tigers 2-1 on Tuesday night but were officially eliminated from playoff contention when the Minnesota Twins topped the Cleveland Indians 8-6.
"We've still got games to play," Royals manager Ned Yost said.
"I'm not going to sit here and reflect on that right now."
The Royals (77-80)must win out to have a winning record.
They were 81-81 last year.
One more Kauffman Stadium victory would give the Royals their fifth straight winning home season.
Yost said he plans to rest center fielder Lorenzo Cain and catcher Salvador Perez on Wednesday.
Yost said he plans to start Cain, Hosmer, Mike Moustakas and Alcides Escobar in the weekend games against the Arizona Diamondbacks.
All four can be free agents.
All were part of the core that won back-to-back AL championships.
Baltimore Ravens national anthem singer Joey Odoms announced his resignation Tuesday -- two days after hundreds of NFL players knelt during The Star-Spangled Banner, including several Ravens players.
Odoms, a Maryland National Guard member who served in Afghanistan, announced the move in a Facebook and Instagram post, The Baltimore Sun reported.
"The tone/actions of a large number of NFL fans in the midst of our country's cultural crisis have convinced me that I do not belong there," Odoms wrote.
"Someone once told me to always 'go where you're welcomed.
This is not an emotional reaction to recent events, rather an ethical decision that part of me regrets but my core knows is the right choice."
SEAHAWKS, TITANS, STEELERS STAY IN LOCKER ROOMS DURING NATIONAL ANTHEM AS MORE PLAYERS PROTEST

Odom ended his post by thanking his fans for the opportunity to grow as a performer and for allowing me to live out a dream of sharing my gift with you.
Kevin Byrne, a senior vice president of the teams public and community relations, confirmed Odoms resignation to The Baltimore Sun.
We greatly appreciate the work Joey did for us and we thank him, Byrne told The Baltimore Sun.
Sunday began with members of the Jacksonville Jaguars and the Baltimore Ravens either taking a knee or locking arms as the U.S. national anthem was sung at London's Wembley Stadium.
Those who were not kneeling, including the coaches on both teams and Jaguars owner Shahid Khan, locked arms during the national anthem.
The players then stood up for God Save the Queen, the British anthem.
The protests were in response to President Trumps comments Friday night during a rally for Alabama's Senate primary.
TRUMP SPEAKS WITH COWBOYS OWNER AFTER PROTEST: PLAYERS WILL STAND FOR COUNTRY

"Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say 'get that son of a b ---- off the field right now?
He's fired!
He's fired,'" Trump told the crowd.
Trumps remarks sparked criticism from a number of professional athletes and NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell.
"Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL, our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities," Goodell said.
More than 200 players around the NFL knelt or sat during the national anthem on Sunday, according to The Associated Press.
The Baltimore Sun reported that Ravens fans had varied reactions to the display with some commending the players and others pledging to stop buying tickets and end their support for the team.
Odoms, a former 911 operator, received the position ahead of eight other finalists to sing the anthem at home games, The Baltimore Sun reported.
The crooner expressed interest in the job after meeting John Harbaugh, the Ravens coach, during his 2013 tour in Afghanistan.
Zach Sanford won't be back anytime soon, but at least his shoulder surgery went well Tuesday.
The St. Louis Blues announcedWednesday that Sanford's surgery to repair his dislocated left shoulder was successful.
The surgery was performed by Dr. Rick Wright, Dr. Matt Smith and Dr. Matt Matava at the Washington University and Barnes-Jewish OrthopedicsCenterin Chesterfield.
The forwardis expected to be sidelined forfive to six months.
He was injured Sept. 15, the first day of training camp.
Sanford, 22,was obtained from theWashington Capitals in the Kevin Shattenkirk trade Feb. 27.
He had two goals and three assists in 13 regular-seasongames with the Blues.
ST. LOUIS -- While time is running out on the St. Louis Cardinals, the party appears ready to start for the Chicago Cubs.
A Chicago win Wednesday over St. Louis would give the Cubs the National League Central championship.
Meanwhile, the Cardinals are hanging on in the NL wild-card race.
The Cardinals (82-75) worked 3 hours, 46 minutes for an 8-7 victory over the Cubs on Tuesday.
Colorado (85-73) earned a 6-0 victory over the Miami Marlins, and the Rockies remained 2 1/2 games in front of St. Louis in the race for the NL's second wild-card spot with five days left in the season.
The Milwaukee Brewers (83-74) sit 1 1/2 games behind Colorado.
The Cardinals realize they could be headed to the same fate as last year, when they were eliminated on the final day.
"We've just got to play our games," St. Louis first baseman Matt Carpenter said.
"Whatever happens, happens."
Whatmust happen for St. Louis on Wednesday night against the Cubs in Busch Stadium is simple: Win.
There can be no more missteps for the final five games, and even that might not be enough.
And the schedule-maker hasn't exactly provided St. Louis with a soft touch for this assignment.
Chicago (88-69) needs one more win or a Milwaukee loss -- the Brewers edged the Cincinnati Reds 7-6 on Tuesday night -- to crack open champagne for a third straight playoff appearance.
The Cubs just about did it Tuesday night despite trailing 8-3 after seven innings.
After scoring four runs in the eighth, they got the tying and go-ahead runs aboard in the ninth before pinch hitter Javier Baez struck out to end it.
"Let's not overreact to anything," Chicago manager Joe Maddon said.
"I loved the comeback.
I loved the energy.
We continued to battle all the way through.
There were a lot of positives."
John Lackey (11-11, 4.67 ERA) will take his turn at pitching a division-clincher for the Cubs.
Lackey, who normally pitches well at Busch, is coming off a no-decision Friday night in Milwaukee, where he gave up three runs in four innings of Chicago's 5-4, 10-inning victory.
In seven career starts against the Cardinals, Lackey is 2-1 with a 2.64 ERA, including a win this season.
In three outings against his old team this year, Lackeyhas a 3.57 ERA.
He is 13-4, 2.10 in 25 career starts at St. Louis.
Lackey will be opposed by Michael Wacha (12-8, 4.00 ERA), who has had a difficult time with the Cubs this year and in his career.
Wacha is 0-2 with a 7.88 ERA in three starts against Chicago in 2017, giving up 14 runs in 16 innings, and he is 4-6 with a 6.32 ERA in 15 career outings (13 starts) against the Cubs.
Wacha allowed two runs in five innings and 73 pitches in his last start Friday night at Pittsburgh, settling for a no-decision in a game St. Louis won 4-3.
The Cardinals probably will play without Yadier Molina (concussion) for a second consecutive game.
The status of left fielder Tommy Pham (left side bruise) is also uncertain after he left Tuesday night for a pinch hitter in the eighth inning.
Baez (left knee), who didn't start Tuesday night after leaving the Monday night game, is a possibility to return to the lineup Wednesday.
TV: FOX Sports Florida

TIME: Pregame coverage begins at 2:30 p.m.

DENVER -- Jon Gray, on a wonderful run for two months, will start Wednesday for the Colorado Rockies in the rubber game of a series with the Miami Marlins.
Gray (9-4, 3.62 ERA) will be opposed by left-hander Adam Conley (7-7, 5.74).
The Rockies, Brewers and Cardinals all won Tuesday night, leaving Colorado 1 1/2 games head of Milwaukee and 2 1/2 games ahead of St. Louis in the chase for the second National League wild card.
Watch the Miami Marlins on FOX Sports Florida

The Rockies (85-73) have four games remaining, while the Brewers (83-74) and Cardinals (82-75) have five more games to play.
Colorado is 12-7 in games started by Gray, who has allowed three or fewer runs in 12 consecutive starts, two short of the franchise record set by Ubaldo Jimenez.
In that 12-start span dating from July 25, Gray is 6-3 with a 2.49 ERA.
He has allowed 65 hits and 16 walks in 72 1/3 innings during that stretch, striking out 75 while limiting opposing hitters to a .249 average and a .656 on-base-plus-slugging percentage.
Understandably, Gray is supremely confident with a take-your-best-shot-at-me internal swagger as he faces opposing hitters.
"That's exactly how you want to feel going out there," he said.
"It's the kind of mindset you need, really.
If you don't really feel that way, there's not much of a chance you have in the first place.
But it does carry over, and the more good ones that happen, the more confident you feel.
I'm just working on taking steps forward."
Gray gave up five hits and one run in six innings Friday at San Diego in his latest start.
He walked one, struck out eight and came away with the win in Colorado's 4-1 victory.
"I'm using other weapons this year," said Gray, who is 0-2 with a 7.63 ERA in three career starts against the Marlins.
"I've shown that there's other ways to get people out than throwing sliders every other pitch.
Just working the curveball in, I think show some pitch-ability, stealing strikes (with it), use it for a punch-out pitch.
Mixing in a change every now and then and showing good fastball location, moving (it) to both sides of the plate.
It's just been an improvement this year.
"It helps me feel like even when I don't have my best stuff, like my last start I didn't feel very good at all, but I still I can pitch my way out of it.
I still feel like I can make really good pitches.
I know what to do.
I know where to go.
And I don't know, it's just like following a guide."
Conley, who is 1-0 with a 5.91 ERA in his career against Colorado, didn't get out of the second inning in his Friday start at Arizona.
He has pitched five innings in one of his past four starts, going 1-1 with a 9.56 ERA in that stretch.
Marlins second baseman and leadoff hitter Dee Gordon, who went 1-for-4 on Tuesday in Miami's 6-0 loss to the Rockies, needs eight hits in his final five games to reach 200 in a season for the second time in his career.
Regardless, Gordon is hitting .304 with 107 runs, which ranks fifth in the National League, and 56 stolen bases (second).
His successful season resembles those he produced in 2014 with the Los Angeles Dodgers (.289, 176 hits, 92 runs and 64 stolen bases) and 2015 with the Marlins (.333, 205 hits, 88 runs and 58 steals).
In 2016, he was suspended 80 games for violating Major League Baseball's performance-enhancing-drug policy.
Asked how gratifying this season has been in the wake of last year, Gordon said, "Some people were wrong about me.
I mean, I knew I could still play.
I just had to go out and show people."
When it was suggested this season had to be satisfying, Gordon said, "Not satisfying when you know what you can do.
I know what I can do.
The thing about those years is I had to show people I could do that then.
It's just a part of my game that's not very well respected these days being a smaller guy.
So I got to be really good at it."
TV: FOX Sports Sun

TIME: Pregame coverage begins at 6:30 p.m.

NEW YORK -- The New York Yankees know they are at least hosting the American League wild-card game.
They still would like to catch the Boston Red Sox for the AL East title.
New York gets another chance at inching closer to Boston on Wednesday night when it continues a three-game series with the Tampa Bay Rays.
The Yankees (88-69) opened the series Tuesday with a 6-1 win.
As center fielder Aaron Hicks was making a leaping catch on Wilson Ramos in the first inning and Jordan Montgomery was pitching six effective innings, Boston ace Chris Sale was allowing four homers in a 9-4 loss to the Toronto Blue Jays.
Watch the Tampa Bay Rays on FOX Sports Sun

Tuesday's events put the Yankees three games back with five games remaining.
It marked the second straight day New York gained ground after falling five behind Sunday.
"With five left, there's still a chance," Yankees manager Joe Girardi said.
"We have to play to play really well, and that still is our focus.
We have to play extremely well, and we'll see what happens."
Playing well is what the Yankees are doing this month.
Since getting swept by the Cleveland Indians in a three-game series, they are 18-7.
"I know time's not on our side, but you never know," Yankees first baseman Chase Headley said.
"Play it out.
Try to put pressure on (the Red Sox) to perform.
But it's nice to know worst-case scenario we'll play that (wild-card) game at home."
New York is 27-14 since Aug. 14, 40-24 since July 20.
During the past 11 home games -- 10 of them New York wins -- the Yankees are averaging 7.5 runs and batting .320 with 25 homers while adding to the AL's best home record, 48-28.
On Wednesday, Tampa Bay (76-81) will be playing its first game since being officially eliminated from playoff contention.
The Rays were a half-game out of the second wild card last month but are 6-11 in their past 17 games.
"Obviously frustrated, frustrated for the guys," Tampa Bay manager Kevin Cash said.
"Believe it or not, the guys have battled through tough situations and tough ballgames and tough losses.
Just like you can say about other clubs, but you come out of spring training with a goal of getting there, and when your season's cut short and you don't, there's obvious frustrations that come along with that."
The Rays are 6-11 against the Yankees and 1-7 at Yankee Stadium.
In the series opener, Kevin Kiermaier and Steven Souza Jr. were a combined 5-for-7, but the rest of Tampa Bay's lineup was 1-for-25.
The Yankees will start Luis Severino (13-6, 3.03 ERA) on Wednesday with the idea of lining him up for the wild-card game.
On Sept. 20, he faced the Minnesota Twins, New York's likely wild-card opponent, and he endured his second-shortest outing of the season.
The right-hander allowed three runs and five hits in three innings but recorded a no-decision as the Yankees won 11-3.
Severino threw 46 of his 71 pitches during the third inning, when he allowed all the runs.
He threw 13 of those pitches to Joe Mauer, resulting in a two-run single.
"Everything was good until that at-bat against Mauer," Severino said.
"I was getting tired."
Despite the short outing, he is 8-2 with a 2.34 ERA in 13 starts since the All-Star break.
Severino is 4-1 with a 3.06 ERA in nine career appearances (five starts) against the Rays.
On April 13 in New York, he struck out 11 and allowed two runs in seven innings during a 3-2 win over Tampa Bay.
On May 19 in St. Petersburg, Fla., he fanned seven and allowed one run in five innings during a no-decision.
Matt Andriese (5-4, 4.44 ERA) makes his 17th start of the season for the Rays and is looking to end a lengthy winless drought.
He is 0-3 with an 8.45 ERA in his past seven starts since May 25.
Since returning from a hip injury, Andriese is 0-3 with a 7.20 ERA in four starts, though he is coming off his best outing since being activated, especially after a rocky first inning.
In a 3-1 loss at Baltimore on Thursday, he allowed three runs and seven hits in six innings while tying a season best with eight strikeouts.
"I think today kind of showed what I have," Andriese said after that game.
"It was tough missing so much time.
Now I am just starting to get in the groove and get ready for next season.
I am just looking forward to getting back out there every five days and being healthy."
Andriese is 2-2 with a 5.64 ERA in seven appearances (five starts) against the Yankees, who faced him twice before his DL stint.
He allowed five runs in five innings in a home win on May 20 and gave up one earned run in six innings during a no-decision on April 13 in New York.
Mavericks point guard J.J. Barea was heartbroken when Hurricane Maria devastated his native homeland of Puerto Rico.
For days after the Category 4 storm, he could not communicate with his parents still on the island.
On Monday, with the help of the NBA teams owner Mark Cuban and the team plane, the 33-year-old was able to fly to the U.S. territory with food, water and other supplies.
CARNIVAL, ROYAL CARIBBEAN SHIPS TO HELP PUERTO RICO AID EFFORTS

Puerto Rico is everything to me, Barea told Fox 4 News after returning to Dallas on Tuesday.
Thats where Im born and raised.
Thats where I got all my family.
He said the images from the island are heartbreaking.
Puerto Rico is completely destroyed, he said.
Worst ever down there.
We need everything from gas to water to food to medicine.
Barea, the only native Puerto Rican active in the NBA, said Cuban did not hesitate to loan him the teams plane for the trip.
I was really proud of J.J. and how quickly he got involved and how hard he worked to make all of this happen, Cuban told ESPN via a test message.
Team coach Rick Carlisle said Barea missed the first day of the Mavs training camp.
Thats a situation that hes got to take care of, Carlisle told ESPN.
Mark gave him our team plane.
They loaded up a bunch of stuff, supplies, etc., to take over to Puerto Rico, and theyre going to turn around and come back.
Barea said they were able to fill up seven 18-wheelers with toiletries, food and water.
He said they hope to go back with more supplies but getting private planes and airport slots is not easy.
Its really bad down there so we need all the help, he added.
PUERTO RICO STRUGGLES TO RECOVER FROM HURRICANE MARIA, AS TRUMP PLANS VISIT

Hurricane Maria, a Category 4 when it hit, swept through the U.S. territory just a week ago leaving much of the island without adequate food, water and fuel.
Flights off the island were infrequent, communications were spotty and roads were clogged with debris.
Officials have said electrical power may not be fully restored for more than a month.
The Trump administration ramped up its efforts in the islands recovery, sending a flotilla of ships and thousands more military personnel.
After the storm hit, Barea and his wife, Viviana Ortiz, a Puerto Rican actress and model, started an online fundraiser that has raised more than $118,000.
Barea brought his mother and grandmother back to Dallas.
His father stayed on the island to help with recovery efforts.
PHOENIX -- J.D.
Martinez hit a grand slam and drove in six runs, leading the Arizona Diamondbacks and their lineup of regulars to an 11-4 win over the San Francisco Giants on Tuesday night.
Martinez continued his torrid September in which he has 15 home runs, 35 RBIs and seven doubles with a .414 batting average.
He has 28 homers since the Diamondbacks acquired him from Detroit, tied with Miami slugger Giancarlo Stanton for most in the majors since July 19.
The six RBIs tied a career high, and Martinez's total of 103 RBIs on the season is a career best.
The Diamondbacks went with their everyday lineup after giving all but second baseman Brandon Drury the night off Monday, one day after they clinched home-field advantage in the NL wild-card game Oct. 4.
The hitters came out swinging right away.
Martinez doubled home two runs in the first inning, then drove his grand slam out to right field during a six-run second.
He trotted back to the home dugout with his third slam of the season to chants of "J.D.!
J.D.!"
from the crowd.
David Peralta and A.J.
Pollock also drove in runs in the inning.
Seven earned runs were charged to Giants starter Matt Moore (6-15), who couldn't make it out of the second inning.
Arizona starter Robbie Ray had more than enough support, though he gave up Tim Federowicz's two-run homer in the fifth.
Ray (15-5) allowed three hits in five innings and won for the sixth time in his last seven starts.
He struck out five.
Ketel Marte doubled and tripled for Arizona, driving in two runs in the fifth with his triple.
Pablo Sandoval and Joe Panik drove in single runs for the Giants in the seventh.
Pinch-hitter Christian Walker hit a line-drive home run in the bottom of the seventh that barely cleared the right-field fence, his second homer of the season.
UP NEXT

Giants: RHP Jeff Samardzija (9-15) is set for his final start of 2017 in an afternoon game Wednesday against Arizona.
Diamondbacks: RHP Braden Shipley (0-1) replaces ace Zack Greinke, who was pushed back to Friday to line him up for the wild-card game.
Arizona's starting rotation going forward is Shipley, Greinke, Taijuan Walker on Saturday and a pitcher to be determined on Sunday.
MILWAUKEE (AP) -- Domingo Santana hit an early three-run homer and the Milwaukee Brewers kept pace in the playoff race by holding off the Cincinnati Reds 7-6 on Tuesday night.
The surprising Brewers have five games left and need help to reach the postseason.
They remained 1 1/2 games behind Colorado for the second NL wild card after the Rockies blanked Miami 6-0.
Milwaukee (83-74) began the day six games back of the first-place Cubs in the NL Central.
Chicago played at St. Louis and was one win short of clinching the division crown.
With starter Zach Davies lasting just four innings, Josh Hader (2-3) earned the win by striking out six and allowing two runs over 2 2/3 innings of relief.
Joey Votto singled with one out in the ninth off Brewers closer Corey Knebel, and pinch-runner Philip Ervin stole second.
Knebel recovered to earn his 38th save by striking out Scooter Gennett and getting Eugenio Suarez to fly out to right field.
Santana connected off rookie Deck McGuire (0-1) in the first.
Stephen Vogt and Orlando Arcia hit consecutive doubles to make it 4-0.
Scott Schebler pulled the Reds to 4-2 with a two-run homer off Davies in the second, but a throwing error by Gennett at second base allowed two runs to score for the Brewers with two outs in the third.
Cincinnati chipped away at the 6-2 deficit, scoring a run on a sacrifice fly by Votto in the fifth and adding two more in the seventh on a solo homer by Zack Cozart and an RBI single by Suarez.
Vogt hit his third double of the game and scored on a sacrifice fly by Hernan Perez in the seventh to put the Brewers up 7-5.
The Reds got that run back in the eighth when pinch-hitter Jesse Winker homered off Anthony Swarzak.
TRAINER'S ROOM

Reds: RHP Drew Storen had Tommy John surgery in Cincinnati.
He is expected to miss the entire 2018 season.
Brewers: C Manny Pina was out of the lineup for a fourth straight game after injuring his left thumb on a play at the plate Thursday against the Cubs.
It is uncertain if Pina will be able to return before the end of the regular season.
UP NEXT

Reds: RHP Homer Bailey (5-9, 6.96 ERA) will start for the fourth time this season against the Brewers on Wednesday.
He has a 7.07 ERA in his previous three outings against Milwaukee but did allow just three runs over six innings in a 5-4 win on Sept. 4.
Brewers: RHP Brandon Woodruff (2-2.
3.76) is slated to make his eighth career start and first against the Reds.
He received a no-decision last time out on Sept. 22 after allowing four runs over five innings against the Cubs.
In Dallas, Tyler Seguin scored two goals to push the Dallas Stars to a 4-1 win over the Minnesota Wild.
More Wild coverage

Seguin's first goal at 9:52 of the second period lifted Dallas to a 2-0 lead.
His empty-netter with 2:43 left in regulation sealed the victory.
Jason Dickinson and Tyler Pitlick also scored for the Stars, and Kari Lehtonen made 32 saves.
Jason Zucker scored Minnesota's lone goal, and Alex Stalock stopped 33 shots.
MILWAUKEE -- Domingo Santana hit an early three-run homer and the Milwaukee Brewers kept pace in the playoff race by holding off the Cincinnati Reds 7-6 on Tuesday night.
More Brewers coverage

The surprising Brewers have five games left and need help to reach the postseason.
They remained 1 1/2 games behind Colorado for the second NL wild card after the Rockies blanked Miami 6-0.
Milwaukee (83-74) began the day six games back of the first-place Cubs in the NL Central.
Chicago played at St. Louis and was one win short of clinching the division crown.
With starter Zach Davies lasting just four innings, Josh Hader (2-3) earned the win by striking out six and allowing two runs over 2 2/3 innings of relief.
Joey Votto singled with one out in the ninth off Brewers closer Corey Knebel, and pinch-runner Philip Ervin stole second.
Knebel recovered to earn his 38th save by striking out Scooter Gennett and getting Eugenio Suarez to fly out to right field.
Santana connected off rookie Deck McGuire (0-1) in the first.
Stephen Vogt and Orlando Arcia hit consecutive doubles to make it 4-0.
Scott Schebler pulled the Reds to 4-2 with a two-run homer off Davies in the second, but a throwing error by Gennett at second base allowed two runs to score for the Brewers with two outs in the third.
Cincinnati chipped away at the 6-2 deficit, scoring a run on a sacrifice fly by Votto in the fifth and adding two more in the seventh on a solo homer by Zack Cozart and an RBI single by Suarez.
Vogt hit his third double of the game and scored on a sacrifice fly by Hernan Perez in the seventh to put the Brewers up 7-5.
The Reds got that run back in the eighth when pinch-hitter Jesse Winker homered off Anthony Swarzak.
TRAINER'S ROOM

Reds: RHP Drew Storen had Tommy John surgery in Cincinnati.
He is expected to miss the entire 2018 season.
Brewers: C Manny Pina was out of the lineup for a fourth straight game after injuring his left thumb on a play at the plate Thursday against the Cubs.
It is uncertain if Pina will be able to return before the end of the regular season.
UP NEXT

Reds: RHP Homer Bailey (5-9, 6.96 ERA) will start for the fourth time this season against the Brewers on Wednesday.
He has a 7.07 ERA in his previous three outings against Milwaukee but did allow just three runs over six innings in a 5-4 win on Sept. 4.
Brewers: RHP Brandon Woodruff (2-2.
3.76) is slated to make his eighth career start and first against the Reds.
He received a no-decision last time out on Sept. 22 after allowing four runs over five innings against the Cubs.
DENVER (AP) -- Trevor Story hit a three-run homer and Tyler Anderson allowed four hits over seven superb innings, helping the Colorado Rockies beat the Miami Marlins 6-0 on Tuesday night to maintain their slim lead for the second NL wild card.
The Rockies notched their first win over the Marlins in five tries this season and stayed 1 games ahead of Milwaukee, which beat Cincinnati earlier in the evening.
Story had the big blow in a four-run first inning and Nolan Arenado added a two-run homer in the fifth as the Rockies chase their first playoff berth since 2009.
Anderson (6-6) faced the minimum through five innings courtesy of two double plays.
He has a 1.19 ERA in four appearances since coming back from knee surgery.
The bullpen took it from there, with Chris Rusin pitching a perfect eighth and Mike Dunn working around a two-out double by Giancarlo Stanton in the ninth.
The Marlins' slugger finished 1 for 4 and remained at 57 homers.
It was a shaky outing for reliable Miami starter Jose Urena (14-7), who yielded six runs over five innings.
The right-hander allowed a total of six runs in four previous starts this month.
Before the game, Carlos Gonzalez likened the Rockies' struggles with runners in scoring position to having the flu.
"We're sick right now," he said.
But this helped make them well -- going 2 for 6 with runners in scoring position Tuesday.
They were hitting .215 in September entering the game.
"Right now, we have that flu," said Gonzalez, who finished 3 for 4 with a double.
"But we're taking medicine to get rid of it and get back to normal."
TRAINER'S ROOM

Marlins: Manager Don Mattingly said LHP Wei-Yin Chen (arm fatigue) is done for the season.
"He will have a full winter to build and strengthen the arm," Mattingly said.
RHP Nick Wittgren underwent surgery to remove a bone chip in his elbow.
"The fact that we were able to find it now, we think he will be able to have a full throwing program before spring training," Mattingly said.
"We expect him to be 100 percent by spring training."
THIS & THAT

Marlins 1B Justin Bour lost control of his bat and it twirled to the side of the pitcher's mound in the second.
Anderson retrieved it for him and then got Bour to roll into a double play.
Arenado's homer gave him 182 hits this season, which ties a career high.
OF Charlie Blackmon was on base four times, including a single and three walks (one intentional).
Every Rockies position player had a hit.
QUOTABLE

"You have to resist trying so hard because you want something so badly."
-- Rockies manager Bud Black on not pressing at the plate in the heat of a playoff chase.
UP NEXT

Marlins: LHP Adam Conley (7-7, 5.74 ERA) tries to bounce back from a rough start last week, when he allowed seven runs in 1 2/3 innings at Arizona.
Rockies: RHP Jon Gray (9-4, 3.62) is 4-1 with a 3.12 ERA at home since returning from a broken bone in his left foot in late June.
PANTHERS 4, LIGHTNING 2

In Sunrise, Florida, Roberto Luongo stopped 38 shots to lead Florida to the victory.
The Panthers grabbed the lead for good on a pair of goals for Jonathan Huberdeau in a 5:15 span of the second period.
Connor Brickley and Vincent Trocheck added third-period goals.
Ryan Callahan and Nikita Kucherov scored for Tampa Bay, and Andrei Vasilevskiy made 29 saves.
CLEVELAND (AP) -- Brian Dozier's three-run homer in the eighth inning pushed Minnesota to the brink of a playoff berth as the Twins rallied for an 8-6 victory over Cleveland on Tuesday night.
The Indians lost for just the third time in 32 games.
Dozier connected for his 33rd homer against Bryan Shaw (4-6) as the Twins lowered their magic number for clinching a playoff berth to one.
Minnesota's first trip to the postseason since 2010 will have to wait at least one more day as the Los Angeles Angels beat the Chicago White Sox 9-3 on Tuesday.
One-out singles in the eighth by Jason Castro and Robbie Grossman set the table for Dozier, who drove an 0-1 pitch over the wall in right, touching off a wild celebration in Minnesota's dugout.
Edwin Encarnacion hit his 38th homer and drove in four runs for the Indians, whose 29-3 mark over 32 games is the best in the majors since the 1947 New York Yankees did it.
After recently reeling off a record 22 straight wins, the Indians (98-59) are trying to hold onto the league's best record as well as catch the Los Angeles Dodgers for the best overall mark.
Eddie Rosario homered and had three RBIs for the Twins, who lost 103 games last season and are now just a win away from extending a remarkable turnaround season.
Taylor Rogers (7-3), one of a club record 10 pitchers used by Twins manager Paul Monitor, got two outs in the seventh and Matt Belisle worked the ninth for his eighth save.
Minnesota is on the cusp of unexpected history.
In addition to making the postseason for the first time since 2010, the Twins, who went 59-103 in 2016, are close to becoming the first team to lose 100 games and make the playoffs the following year.
Granted, the second wild-card berth has made that more of a possibility, but it doesn't diminish the accomplishment.
Minnesota is also seeking to become the 13th team, and first since the 2009 Seattle Mariners, to go from 100-plus losses to a winning record the following season.
Twins starter Bartolo Colon left after the first inning with an unspecified illness, forcing Molitor to go deep and deeper into his bullpen.
Rosario gave Minnesota 4-2 lead in the third with a two-run double before the Indians tied it in their half on RBI singles by Encarnacion and Jay Bruce.
Encarnacion broke the 100-RBI plateau in the first with a two-run single.
The slugger has driven in at least 100 runs in five of the past six seasons, and in his first season with the Indians, he became just the fifth player in Cleveland history with at least 100 RBIs and 100 walks in the same season.
The Twins jumped on starter Josh Tomlin for two runs in the first on Jorge Polanco's RBI groundout and Rosario's 27th homer.
TRAINER'S ROOM

Twins: Molitor said 3B/DH Miguel Sano remains unlikely to play in the wild-card game if the Twins get there.
He's missed 36 games with a left shin injury.
Indians: Cleveland's banged-up outfield is on the mend.
LF Michael Brantley is expected to try and run later this week, an important step in his recovery from an ankle injury.
At this point, Brantley's chances of playing in the postseason appear slim.
RF Lonnie Chisenhall campaigned to play in the series opener after sitting out since Sept. 14 with a calf injury.
OF Brandon Guyer is expected to hit in a few days.
He's been out since the middle of the month with a wrist injury.
UP NEXT

Danny Salazar, whose spot on Cleveland's postseason roster isn't guaranteed, starts against Minnesota's Adalberto Mejia.
CLEVELAND -- Brian Dozier's three-run homer in the eighth inning pushed Minnesota to the brink of a playoff berth as the Twins rallied for an 8-6 victory over Cleveland on Tuesday night.
The Indians lost for just the third time in 32 games.
Dozier connected for his 33rd homer against Bryan Shaw (4-6) as the Twins lowered their magic number for clinching a playoff berth to one.
More Twins coverage

Minnesota can wrap up its first trip to the postseason since 2010 if the Los Angeles Angels lose in Chicago.
One-out singles in the eighth by Jason Castro and Robbie Grossman set the table for Dozier, who drove an 0-1 pitch over the wall in right, touching off a wild celebration in Minnesota's dugout.
Edwin Encarnacion hit his 38th homer and drove in four runs for the Indians, whose 29-3 mark over 32 games is the best in the majors since the 1947 New York Yankees did it.
After recently reeling off a record 22 straight wins, the Indians (98-59) are trying to hold onto the league's best record as well as catch the Los Angeles Dodgers for the best overall mark.
Eddie Rosario homered and had three RBIs for the Twins, who lost 103 games last season and are now just a win away from extending a remarkable turnaround season.
Taylor Rogers (7-3), one of a club record 10 pitchers used by Twins manager Paul Monitor, got two outs in the seventh and Matt Belisle worked the ninth for his eighth save.
Minnesota is on the cusp of unexpected history.
In addition to making the postseason for the first time since 2010, the Twins, who went 59-103 in 2016, are close to becoming the first team to lose 100 games and make the playoffs the following year.
Granted, the second wild-card berth has made that more of a possibility, but it doesn't diminish the accomplishment.
Minnesota is also seeking to become the 13th team, and first since the 2009 Seattle Mariners, to go from 100-plus losses to a winning record the following season.
Twins starter Bartolo Colon left after the first inning with an unspecified illness, forcing Molitor to go deep and deeper into his bullpen.
Rosario gave Minnesota 4-2 lead in the third with a two-run double before the Indians tied it in their half on RBI singles by Encarnacion and Jay Bruce.
Encarnacion broke the 100-RBI plateau in the first with a two-run single.
The slugger has driven in at least 100 runs in five of the past six seasons, and in his first season with the Indians, he became just the fifth player in Cleveland history with at least 100 RBIs and 100 walks in the same season.
The Twins jumped on starter Josh Tomlin for two runs in the first on Jorge Polanco's RBI groundout and Rosario's 27th homer.
TRAINER'S ROOM

Twins: Molitor said 3B/DH Miguel Sano remains unlikely to play in the wild-card game if the Twins get there.
He's missed 36 games with a left shin injury.
Indians: Cleveland's banged-up outfield is on the mend.
LF Michael Brantley is expected to try and run later this week, an important step in his recovery from an ankle injury.
At this point, Brantley's chances of playing in the postseason appear slim.
RF Lonnie Chisenhall campaigned to play in the series opener after sitting out since Sept. 14 with a calf injury.
OF Brandon Guyer is expected to hit in a few days.
He's been out since the middle of the month with a wrist injury.
UP NEXT

Danny Salazar, whose spot on Cleveland's postseason roster isn't guaranteed, starts against Minnesota's Adalberto Mejia.
NEW YORK (AP) -- Aaron Hicks robbed Wilson Ramos of a first-inning grand slam in the outfielder's return from the disabled list, and the playoff-bound New York Yankees beat the Tampa Bay Rays 6-1 Tuesday night to clinch home-field advantage if they end up in the AL wild-card game next week.
Tampa Bay's first three batters reached against rookie Jordan Montgomery (9-7), and Hicks leaped at the 385-foot sign in right-center to get his glove above the wall.
He squeezed the webbing tight, preventing the ball from popping out and limiting Ramos to a sacrifice fly.
With its 17th win in 23 games, New York (88-69) moved 19 games over .500 for the first time since finishing 95-67 in 2012.
Assured no worse than a wild-card berth, the Yankees closed within three games of AL East-leading Boston with five remaining.
The Red Sox lost 9-4 at home to Toronto.
Tampa Bay (76-81) was eliminated from playoff contention and missed the postseason for the fourth straight year.
Starlin Castro homered leading off a four-run second, when Blake Snell (4-7) walked a pair of batters with the bases loaded and Chaz Roe threw a run-scoring wild pitch.
Gary Sanchez and Matt Holliday added RBI singles in the eighth.
Montgomery allowed singles to his first two batters and walked the next one before striking out Logan Morrison.
The left-hander retired Ramos on Hicks' grab, then fanned Adeiny Hechavarria.
Told his night was over after allowing one run and six hits in six innings, Montgomery walked over to Hicks in the dugout and gave him a hug.
Hicks strained his right oblique muscle June 25 on a checked swing against Texas and did not return until Aug. 10.
He strained his left oblique at Boston on Sept. 2 when he reached up to make a running catch on the warning track of Hanley Ramirez's drive.
Hicks walked three times, struck out in the sixth and left the game.
In the shortest of his 42 big league starts, Snell failed to retire any of his six batters in the second inning and threw only 24 of 49 pitches for strikes.
He allowed four runs, four hits and four walks -- after walking Hicks on five pitches, he threw four straight balls to Aaron Judge, his final batter.
SLIP-SLIDING AWAY

Tampa Bay was 53-49 on July 27 and one out from winning a series opener at Yankee Stadium only for second baseman Tim Beckham and Hechavarria at shortstop to both freeze and allow Sanchez's grounder to roll through the shift for a tying single.
Brett Gardner hit a winning homer off rookie Andrew Kittredge leading off the 11th.
"It had direct impact, being it's the Yankees in our division," Rays manager Kevin Cash said.
"There's been a handful of losses that are going to sting throughout the offseason."
WHOOPS

New York threw its 52nd wild pitch of the season with Sanchez behind the plate.
SEAT OF THEIR PANTS

New York's David Robertson and the Rays' Austin Pruitt both threw out batters while seated on the infield grass after slipping to field eighth-inning dribblers.
IN THE MONEY

Ramos started his 55th game at catcher, triggering a rise in his salary next year from $8.5 million to $10.5 million as long as he doesn't finish the season on the disabled list because of a right knee injury.
If he starts the five remaining games, his salary would rise by an additional $250,000.
LOOKING ON

Retired heavyweight champion Mike Tyson was on the field during batting practice.
TRAINER'S ROOM

Yankees: RHP Adam Warren, who hasn't pitched since Sept. 1 because of a lower back spasm, tossed a two-inning simulated game and could be activated this week.
UP NEXT

RHP Luis Severino (13-6) starts for the Yankees on Wednesday in what will likely be his last appearance before the playoffs.
RHP Matt Andriese (5-4) goes for the Rays.
GREEN BAY, Wis. -- Injuries have hammered away at the offensive line depth of the Green Bay Packers.
Left tackle David Bakhtiari and fellow starter at right tackle, Bryan Bulaga, haven't played a game together since the second week of the preseason, a trend that could continue Thursday night against the Chicago Bears.
Bakhtiari and Bulaga were limited Tuesday in practice, which was scaled back because of injuries and the short turnaround from the overtime win Sunday against Cincinnati.
Packers Coverage

That both players practiced was key to their prospects for facing the Bears.
"If an individual doesn't get into the limited practice category today, I think he'd be hard pressed to play in the game Thursday," coach Mike McCarthy said before practice.
"That's about as good as I can give you based on the information that I have."
Bulaga missed the first two games with an injured ankle but started on Sunday.
However, he aggravated the injury in the fourth quarter and missed the last 23 snaps.
Bakhtiari missed the last two games with a hamstring injury sustained late in the Week 1 win over Seattle.
"I've been progressing every day since the injury," he said.
"That's important.
We're taking the right steps and that's the most important thing."
Versatile veteran Don Barclay injured an ankle in the preseason and was placed on injured reserve.
Jason Spriggs, a second-round pick last year who was expected to be the swing tackle, injured a hamstring in the opener and was also placed on injured reserve.
That left Kyle Murphy, a sixth-round pick last year who played only eight snaps as a rookie, as the top backup.
Murphy replaced Bulaga in Week 1 and Bakhtiari in Weeks 2 and 3, but was placed on injured reserve on Tuesday.
He played all 70 snaps of the overtime victory against the Bengals despite a foot injury in the fourth quarter.
The revolving door has impacted the Aaron Rodgers-led passing attack, even though Rodgers has topped 300 yards in each game this season.
Rodgers directed the Packers to the tying drive at the end of regulation and the winning drive in overtime against Cincinnati.
"Protection-wise, we have had to be smart about who's playing out there and what we can handle," Rodgers said.
"You're talking about two starters and then primary backups who've been out.
So, it's been a work in progress, but those guys are playing hard."
The best-case scenario would have Bakhtiari and Bulaga playing well on Thursday.
The backup plans include Justin McCray, who played center and guard throughout the preseason but started at right tackle against Atlanta, and Adam Pankey, an undrafted rookie who started the season on the practice squad.
Ulrick John, a seventh-round pick by Indianapolis in 2014 who started three games at right tackle for Arizona last season, was signed off the Cardinals' practice squad on Tuesday.
Otherwise, the Packers appear to be in better shape than they were on Sunday, when six starters were inactive and Bulaga joined them on the bench.
Receiver Randall Cobb (chest), defensive tackle Mike Daniels (hip) and safety Kentrell Brice (groin), all of whom were inactive last week, were full participants in practice.
So was outside linebacker Nick Perry, who wore a large cast on a surgically repaired right hand.
Running back Ty Montgomery (wrist), who leads the team in rushing and receptions, was also a full participant.
NOTE:Rodgers said the team would ask fans to join the Packers in locking arms during the national anthem on Thursday.
Most of the Packers stood on the sideline and locked arms during the anthem before the Bengals game.
"We're going to continue to show love and unity, and this week we're going to ask the fans to join in as well and come together and show people that we can be connected and we can grow together."
Rodgers said there has been some "positive conversation", but also "a lot of hatred on my social media" following the team's decision for the national anthem last week.
He said the showing was about equality.
PHOENIX -- The Diamondbacks named first baseman Kevin Cron and right-hander Jon Duplantier as their Minor League Player and Pitcher of the Year for 2017.
Cron, 24, hit .283 with 35 doubles, 25 home runs, 91 RBI and 76 runs scored in 138 games with Double-A Jackson.
He was named Southern League Most Valuable Player after leading the league in home runs, RBI, extra-base hits (60) and total bases (256).
A graduate of Mountain Pointe High School in Phoenix, he also led the Southern League in home runs in 2016 with 26.
Duplantier, 23, was named MLB Pipeline's Pitcher of the Year for all of the minor leagues, going 12-3 with a 1.39 ERA in 25 games between Single-A Kane County and Single-Advanced Visalia.
He struck out 165 batters in 136 innings and his combined ERA was the second-lowest in minor-league baseball over the last 25 years -- behind only Justin Verlander's 1.29 ERA in 2005.
Verlander was a third-round draft pick out of Rice in 2016 and was named the organization's minor-league pitcher of the month for April, May and July -- joining Archie Bradley (2013) as the only pitchers in franchise history to be honored three times in one season.
PHOENIX -- The Phoenix Suns have signed forward T.J. Warren to a multiyear contract extension.
The contract, according to ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski, is worth $50 million over four years.
"We are excited about extending T.J.'s contract," said General Manager Ryan McDonough.
"T.J. has improved every year, and we think he has the potential to continue to grow as he just begins to approach his prime.
We view T.J. as an important part of our young core going forward and we are glad that we were able to reach an agreement on this extension."
Warren, a 6-8, 215-pound forward, is entering his fourth NBA season and averaged career highs of 14.4 points, 5.1 rebounds, 1.2 steals and 31.0 minutes in 66 games (59 starts) in 2016-17.
The 24-year-old shot 49.5 percent from the field.
He averaged 17.6 points on 56.0 percent shooting following last season's All-Star break.
Warren has a career shooting percentage of 50.2 percent from the field while averaging 11.2 points per game.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (AP) -- Prosecutors have decided not to file charges against Miami Dolphins receiver Jarvis Landry over allegations of domestic violence.
The Broward State Attorney's Office said an investigation determined there was "no reasonable likelihood" of a conviction.
The case involved an April 1 encounter between Landry and Estrella Cerqueira, the mother of their daughter.
"The victim maintains that the defendant did not intent to touch her (or) strike her, but accidentally did so," said a memorandum filed Monday by assistant state attorney Stefanie Newman.
There were no witnesses to the encounter at Landry's residence, and video surveillance appeared to corroborate Cerqueira's account, the prosecutor said.
Cerqueira said in the statement in August that the couple had a "vocal disagreement," but that she never felt physically threatened and that nothing violent took place.
She wasn't injured and didn't seek medical attention, the prosecutor said.
Landry said he appreciated the work by investigators.
"I am thankful that they were able to come to a conclusion that reaffirms the true facts that no crime was committed," Landry said in a statement released Tuesday by his agent.
"My daughter's mother and I will continue to co-parent to raise our child in a happy and healthy environment."
Under the NFL's personal conduct policy, Commissioner Roger Goodell has the authority to suspend players without criminal convictions.
The league amended the policy three years ago to strengthen punishments in domestic cases.
The Dolphins said last month they were aware of the Landry investigation.
Jay Bilas explains how the federal prosecution of fraud and corruption in college basketball differs from previous instances of impropriety in the sport.
(2:09)

The U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York announced federal corruption charges against four NCAA assistant basketball coaches on Tuesday.
The three-year FBI probe focused on coaches being paid tens of thousands of dollars to steer NBA-bound players toward sports agents, financial advisers and apparel companies.
Here's what we know regarding the federal probe into corruption and fraud in college basketball:

What are the charges?
As announced by U.S. Attorney Joon H. Kim at a news conference on Tuesday, federal authorities have brought forth two distinct sets of allegations.
Under the first group of charges, the U.S. Attorney is alleging that assistant coaches at Arizona, Auburn, Oklahoma State and USC "took cash bribes" in order to steer elite basketball players toward certain financial advisors and sports agents.
The assistants named in the indictment are Chuck Person (Auburn), Emanuel Richardson (Arizona), Lamont Evans (Oklahoma State) and Tony Bland (USC).
USC assistant Tony Bland, right, is one of the coaches involved in the U.S. Attorney's NCAA investigation.
Brian Rothmuller/Icon Sportswire

Each of the coaches is charged with bribery conspiracy, solicitation of bribes, honest services fraud conspiracy, honest service fraud, conspiracy to commit wire fraud and Travel Act conspiracy.
The U.S. Department of Justice said each of the coaches faces a maximum sentence of 80 years in prison.
In the second set of allegations, authorities say that James Gatto, on behalf of an unnamed "sportswear company," funneled "six-figure payments" to three players, who, in exchange, committed to play for particular college programs affiliated with the company.
Gatto is the director of global sports marketing for Adidas.
This set of charges includes a reference to a "public research university located in Kentucky."
University of Louisville interim president Gregory Postel confirmed in a statement that Louisville is the school mentioned.
Three of the four coaches were arrested Tuesday morning, along with James Gatto, director of global sports marketing for Adidas; Merl Code, another Adidas employee; Christian Dawkins, a former NBA agent; Munish Sood, a financial adviser; and two others.
Who is Marty Blazer?
In U.S. Department of Justice documents obtained by ESPN, Louis Martin "Marty" Blazer III is the witness who cooperated with the FBI in its investigation of the coaches and other defendants.
Blazer, a former Pittsburgh financial adviser who was accused of swindling $2.35 million from five clients by the Securities and Exchange Commission and founded Blazer Capital Management, was accused of investing money into movies and entertainment ventures without his clients' knowledge between 2010 and 2012.
As part of his plea agreement with the U.S. Attorney's office, Blazer agreed to plead guilty to securities fraud, aggravated identity theft, false statements and documents, and two counts of wire fraud, according to the Sept. 19 cooperation agreement.
What is the scope of the alleged bribes?
The documents filed by prosecutors allege that the family of a "Player-10," former ESPN 100 recruit Brian Bowen, was to receive $100,000 from the "sportswear" company.
The government also charges that Person received $91,500 from sports agents and/or financial advisors, of which he is said to have forwarded $18,500 to players and their families.
Could other programs or individuals face charges?
The FBI investigation is ongoing.
An FBI spokesperson at Tuesday's news conference warned others who could be involved in corrupt practices.
Joon H. Kim, the acting United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, describes the alleged involvement of college basketball coaches in a bribery and recruiting scheme.
Justin Lane/EPA

"We have your playbook," the spokesperson said.
If you are involved in this, call us.
It will be better for you to call us than for us to call you."
A phone number for a tip line was given at the news conference for anyone who wants to come forward with information.
Why is giving money to an assistant coach or young basketball player against the law?
The charges brought forward include violations of federal statutes on bribery and wire fraud, among other laws.
Any assistant coach found to be taking bribes while employed by an institution receiving federal funds, for example, could be liable to prosecution under federal law.
What is the NCAA's reaction?
"The nature of the charges brought by the federal government are deeply disturbing," NCAA president Mark Emmert said in a statement.
"We have no tolerance whatsoever for this alleged behavior.
Coaches hold a unique position of trust with student-athletes and their families, and these bribery allegations, if true, suggest an extraordinary and despicable breach of that trust.
We learned of these charges this morning and of course will support the ongoing criminal federal investigation."
The NCAA was made aware of the investigation on Tuesday as well.
Have the schools taken any action?
Auburn suspended Person without pay effective immediately.
Oklahoma State suspended Evans with pay.
Arizona suspended Richardson and relieved him of all duties.
USC placed Bland on administrative leave.
USC also announced that it has hired former FBI director Louis Freeh to conduct an internal investigation.
In 2011, Freeh conducted an internal investigation of the Penn State child sexual abuse scandal involving Jerry Sandusky.
What happens next?
As noted at the news conference, the FBI is still pursuing its efforts but no longer doing so as a "covert" investigation.
The phone number for the tip line is being prominently publicized, and no one can say how many more shoes will drop.
Speaking strictly in terms of college sports, the behaviors alleged by federal authorities constitute violations of NCAA bylaws.
According to official protocol, the NCAA notifies an athletic program that it is under investigation if the NCAA has found sufficient evidence.
Then a series of hearings are held, often in front of the NCAA's Committee on Infractions.
Lastly, after the NCAA renders its verdict and the program is given a chance to appeal, a final decision is handed down.
This can be anything from a reduction in scholarships or a postseason ban on the basketball team to a show-cause order on a coach that prohibits him from being hired by any member institution for a stated number of years.
NCAA investigations can take anywhere from a few months to a number of years to reach a resolution.
The NCAA's current investigation into alleged academic fraud at the University of North Carolina, for example, began in June 2014.
What about the head coaches at these programs?
The assistants charged by the authorities have larger concerns than their employment status right now.
As for the head coaches that employed them, the first question will be whether any of the charged defendants will come forward with information directly implicating their head coaches.
Assuming no further information comes out documenting that head coaches had knowledge of what was taking place, much will depend on these coaches' previous track records in terms of compliance with NCAA rules, as well as the language on their current contracts.
If the past is any guide, any terminations issued by university presidents could be made the subject of a wrongful termination suit by the head coach who was fired.
ESPN 100 forward E.J.
Montgomery has decommitted from Auburn, sources confirmed to ESPN.
Editor's Picks NCAA coaches among 10 facing federal charges Federal prosecutors have announced charges of fraud and corruption in college basketball.
Among those arrested and charged are four assistant coaches at Auburn, Arizona, Oklahoma State and USC.
Montgomery, a 6-foot-10 power forward, originally committed to the Tigers last September.
Auburn assistant coach Chuck Person was one of the four college basketball coaches arrested on Tuesday in an FBI investigation into fraud and corruption.
According to FBI documents, Person allegedly accepted bribes on multiple occasions, including one worth approximately $50,000, in order to steer Auburn players to Rashan Michel, a former NBA official who founded Thompson Bespoke Clothing, a custom clothier for athletes.
Montgomery, who attends Wheeler High School (Georgia), is ranked No.
31 in the ESPN 100 for the 2018 class.
He averaged 14.1 points and 11.0 rebounds for the Atlanta Celtics on the Adidas Gauntlet circuit this past spring and summer.
The news was first reported by Scout.com.
Now that the superstar duo is back together, we take a look at the bond between LeBron James and Dwyane Wade that brought Miami back-to-back championships.
(1:44)

Twelve-time NBA All-Star guard Dwyane Wade plans to sign with the Cleveland Cavaliers once he clears waivers on Wednesday, league sources told ESPN.
Wade, who agreed to a contract buyout with the Chicago Bulls on Sunday, will be a unrestricted free agent and will sign a one-year, $2.3 million veterans minimum deal to reunite with LeBron James, league sources said.
Wade's relationship with James, cemented during four seasons and two NBA titles together with the Heat, pushed the Cavaliers past the Oklahoma City Thunder, San Antonio Spurs and Miami in pursuit of Wade.
Wade, a three-time NBA champion and MVP of the 2006 NBA Finals, will join a formidable Cavaliers roster with James, Kevin Love, JR Smith and Tristan Thompson.
The Cavs will be without injured All-Star point guard Isaiah Thomas until at least January.
Dwyane Wade plans to reunite with LeBron James for the 2017-18 season, hoping to rekindle the championship chemistry they had with the Heat.
David Sherman/NBAE/Getty Images

The team will initially cut a nonguaranteed training camp invitee to make room for Wade on the 20-man training camp roster, a Cavs source told ESPN.
It will need to make an additional move beyond that to make space for him on the 15-man regular-season roster.
Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue said it will be a challenge with all the new players added to the Cavaliers' roster this offseason, but he and his players are up for it.
"Anytime you get new pieces and new players, it's always challenging, but I'm up for the challenge, and so are the players," he said.
"We will figure it out.
It will be a good year for us."
Thompson said he expects Wade will fit in well.
"He's pretty familiar with most of the guys on our team, whether playing against or playing with," he said.
"I think he's going to jell pretty well.
He's a veteran.
He's always been a good locker room guy.
We've never heard anything bad.
"It would be great for our team to have another championship-mentality player on our team.
It's just more pieces to the puzzle."
Wade averaged 18 points for the Bulls last season.
In 14 seasons, he has averaged 23.3 points, 5.7 assists and 4.8 rebounds a game.
Wade, 35, gave back $8 million of his $23.8 million 2017-18 salary to reach a buyout agreement with the Bulls, league sources said.
ESPN's Dave McMenamin contributed to this report.
NASCAR Cup driver Brad Keselowski, who often delivers passionate -- and sometimes controversial -- takes on the sport and society, wanted to make sure his fans know why he stands for the national anthem, as he posted a series of tweets Tuesday night on the issue.
Keselowski had tried to explain in a tweet Sunday how he feels about protests during the national anthem.
I can get behind trying to make the world a better place, Can't get behind putting down others; kneeling clearly does both.
https://t.co/Ri2RQqwP4T  Brad Keselowski (@keselowski) September 25, 2017

The Team Penske driver, who penned a blog on the issue a year ago, didn't tweet much more, but he felt compelled to comment after reading the opinion of a Huffington Post contributor that white athletes who don't protest are standing for white supremacy.
Keselowski started with a screenshot of the story and stating: "My reps want me to stay out of this, I CAN'T.
2 all my friends & supporters, I support your civil rights 100% PLEASE DON'T believe this."
I #Choose2honor our country and hope other do too out of my respect and love for a country that has provided us so many blessing.
Brad Keselowski (@keselowski) September 27, 2017

Sure our country isn't perfect (far from it), the list of misgivings is tremendous, but I hope you can see the positives & honor it as well.
Brad Keselowski (@keselowski) September 27, 2017

Please don't believe that when we stand it's out of disrespect to civil rights; it is and always will be out of respect and love for our   Brad Keselowski (@keselowski) September 27, 2017

I plan to stand and sing the national anthem with my family as long as we are able, every chance possible.
I hope you will too  Brad Keselowski (@keselowski) September 27, 2017

So please don't fall for the false narrative of choice between patriotism and racism.
It's simply not the case.
Brad Keselowski (@keselowski) September 27, 2017

Most drivers have refrained from approaching the issue on social media, but Dale Earnhardt Jr. put out a tweet that supported the right to protest:

All Americans R granted rights 2 peaceful protests

Those who make peaceful revolution impossible will make violent revolution inevitable-JFK  Dale Earnhardt Jr. (@DaleJr) September 25, 2017

Earnhardt responded to a follower on Twitter who said he commented on the issue because some owners had spoken on it, including Richard Petty and Richard Childress, who indicated that they would fire any of their employees who protested during the national anthem.
Earnhardt also tweeted a video, without comment, of his dog sitting in front of a flagpole that had a U.S. flag on it.
Denny Hamlin posted a video of the national anthem being played, and the players standing, prior to a basketball game on a court at his home.
NASCAR does not have a specific policy or rule about what its drivers must do during the national anthem, although it asks its drivers and crews to stand in a line by their cars or at their pit stalls.
Drivers are given five minutes to get into their cars after the anthem is played and before the engines are fired for them to begin the pace laps for the race.
"Sports are a unifying influence in our society, bringing people of differing backgrounds and beliefs together," NASCAR said in a statement Monday.
"Our respect for the national anthem has always been a hallmark of our pre-race events.
"Thanks to the sacrifices of many, we live in a country of unparalleled freedoms and countless liberties, including the right to peacefully express one's opinion."
Cody Bellinger fields Hunter Renfroe's line drive and fires it off to home to tag out Wil Myers.
(0:20)

LOS ANGELES -- Alex Wood's fastball wasn't as sharp as usual, yet his stuff was still effective and the results were the same.
Another win.
He allowed two solo home runs in earning his 16th victory of the year for the Dodgers.
Adrian Gonzalez hit his third home run of an injury-plagued season and Los Angeles beat the San Diego Padres 9-2 on Tuesday night to clinch home-field advantage throughout the National League playoffs.
Yasmani Grandal and Corey Seager each had a three-run homer to back Wood (16-3) as the NL West champions improved to 101-57.
The victory, coupled with Washington's loss at Philadelphia, guaranteed the Dodgers will finish with the best record in the NL.
Editor's Picks Real or not?
As Chris Sale stumbles, AL East race isn't over yet A three-game lead with five to play sounds like Boston has room to breathe, but if they come up short it could scramble their postseason plans.
Still, there's uncertainty.
Los Angeles has an abundance of proven starting pitchers and before the game, manager Dave Roberts wouldn't commit to Wood -- an All-Star this season -- being in the postseason rotation.
Asked if he expected to start in the playoffs, Wood said: "What do you think?
It's out of my control, but I expect to start.
I've been pretty good all year.
Everybody in this clubhouse, I think, the guys trust me with the ball in my hand.
We'll see what happens."
The Dodgers will open a best-of-five Division Series at home Oct. 6 against the winner of the NL wild-card game, hosted by Arizona.
The Diamondbacks' opponent has not been determined.
The Dodgers also moved closer to securing home-field advantage if they reach the World Series for the first time since 1988.
They are 2 games ahead of Cleveland (98-59) for the top mark in the majors.
"That's huge," Seager said about earning the home-field edge through the NL Championship Series.
"We're obviously really good at home.
The next step is to try to finish out and get home-field advantage throughout the whole postseason."
Los Angeles has scored nine runs against the Padres in consecutive games and won three straight overall.
Hunter Renfroe hit his 25th home run for San Diego, breaking the club's rookie record set by Nate Colbert in 1969.
"It's cool," Renfroe said.
"Obviously, missing that month (when he was sent to the minors), this feels pretty special to me.
I just think it's a pretty cool achievement.
I just want to keep going and keep hitting more.
So, I'll just keep working and keep hitting."
Wood needed only six pitches to get through the first inning.
He pitched well until the fifth, when he allowed solo homers by Renfroe and Christian Villanueva.
Villanueva's drive to right field was ruled a home run after a replay review determined there was fan interference.
The fan was ejected.
Aside from the home runs, Wood was in command once again.
He gave up two runs and eight hits in six innings, striking out one and issuing an intentional walk.
Wood and teammate Clayton Kershaw have combined for 34 wins this season.
Kershaw will make an abbreviated start Saturday at Colorado in his final appearance before the playoffs.
It's unknown whether Wood will pitch Sunday or not.
But even more unknown is his role in the postseason.
"I know you want a good quote to create the drama of the postseason roster, but it is what it is, man," Wood said.
"I've thrown pretty good.
I feel good.
I would love to start and would appreciate the opportunity.
It would be my fourth time in the postseason.
I'm just excited for us to finally get to October and go from there."
Gonzalez, making his first start in two weeks and fighting for a spot on the playoff roster, hit an opposite-field solo shot to left in the seventh inning.
It was his first home run since Aug. 24.
He also doubled.
Seager added his three-run drive in the seventh.
Padres starter Dinelson Lamet (7-8) had command issues as he walked six -- one intentional -- and allowed four runs on four hits in five innings.
He gave up Grandal's three-run homer after walking back-to-back batters with two outs in the fifth.
"There's a lot to like.
A lot to believe in," San Diego manager Andy Green said.
"It was a really good first showing in the big leagues, but I think he goes into the offseason with some clear things to work on in order to make himself a really viable top-of-the-rotation starter for us in the future.
But stuff's there."
ROCKET ARM

Dodgers rookie Cody Bellinger wowed with a 99 mph throw, according to MLB Statcast, from center field that cut down Wil Myers at the plate in the seventh.
OUT OF THE DOGHOUSE

Yasiel Puig was back in the Los Angeles lineup one day after being benched for arriving late to a pregame workout at Dodger Stadium.
"Things have always been good with Yasiel," Roberts said.
"I think he knows my sole interest is for the benefit of the ballclub.
He's in the lineup, deservedly so.
His only focus is to help us win."
TRAINER'S ROOM

Dodgers: Gonzalez (back) started for the first time since Sept. 11.
... LHP Hyun-Jin Ryu (arm) threw a bullpen and is scheduled to start Friday.
UP NEXT

Padres: LHP Clayton Richard (8-14, 4.63 ERA) has pitched well at Dodger Stadium this season, going 1-0 with a 1.93 ERA in two starts.
This will be his final start of the season.
Dodgers: LHP Rich Hill (11-8, 3.50) pitched the Dodgers to an NL West-clinching victory over the Giants last time out, allowing one run and striking out nine in six innings.
During Gary Sanchez's at-bat during the eighth inning, the umpire has a fan removed from the game for yelling out pitch locations.
Joe Giradi clarifies what happened after the game.
(0:51)

New York Yankees manager Joe Girardi said a fan was "rightfully" ejected from Yankee Stadium during one of Gary Sanchez's at-bats in Tuesday night's 6-1 home win over the Tampa Bay Rays.
Girardi said the umpire ejected the fan sitting behind home plate for "yelling out location for one or two pitches when Gary was up."
Sanchez was batting with a full count against Austin Pruitt in the eighth inning when plate umpire Dan Bellino walked to the backstop and spoke to a member of the team's security staff, directing that the fan be removed.
Bellino then walked toward second base and conferred with crew chief Jerry Layne.
Editor's Picks Real or not?
As Chris Sale stumbles, AL East race isn't over yet A three-game lead with five to play sounds like Boston has room to breathe, but if they come up short it could scramble their postseason plans.
Hicks prevents slam in return, Yanks home for wild-card game Aaron Hicks robbed Wilson Ramos of a first-inning grand slam and the playoff-bound New York Yankees beat the Tampa Bay Rays 6-1 Tuesday night to clinch home-field advantage if they end up in the AL wild-card game next week.
1 Related

Play resumed after a break of about 90 seconds.
Sanchez fouled off a pitch, then hit a bloop RBI single.
Sanchez and Rays catcher Wilson Ramos said the fan had been yelling in Spanish: "Outside!
Outside!''
Ramos said the spectator's shouts were accurate.
"That was not professional.
If you come to the game, you're asked to enjoy the game,'' Ramos said.
"Everybody's supposed to see the ball and just react with pitches ... so to me, it's like cheating.''
Both managers praised the ejection.
"Rightfully so.
That shouldn't happen," Girardi said.
Said Tampa Bay manager Kevin Cash: "The Yankees handled it really well and got him out of there."
Asked if he was aware of anyone in the Yankee Stadium stands yelling out pitch locations before the umpire alerted him to it, Girardi said, "I heard it one or two pitches."
He added that, "The first time I heard it, I didn't think much of it, and the second time I heard it, and that's when the umpire went back there."
"That shouldn't happen, and they were removed from the park," Girardi said in reference to the fan's ejection.
Girardi said he had seen something similar happen before, but not at Yankee Stadium.
Said Girardi: "I've heard it at other places."
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.
OWINGS MILLS, Md.
-- Baltimore Ravens national anthem singer Joey Odoms resigned Tuesday at a time when protests during the song have generated strong emotions across the country.
"The tone/actions of a large number of NFL fans in the midst of our country's cultural crisis have convinced me that I do not belong there," Odoms wrote on Facebook.
"Someone once told me to always 'go where you're welcomed.'"
Odoms, who is African-American, is a member of the Maryland National Guard.
When he was a soldier in Afghanistan, Odoms met John Harbaugh and informed the Ravens coach that he wanted to be the team's next national anthem singer.
Odoms' decision comes two days after 13 Ravens players took a knee during the national anthem for the first time.
This generated intense and mixed responses from the team's fan base.
Some have threatened to sell their tickets and burn Ravens jerseys.
Others have supported the players' right to protest.
A Ravens spokesman confirmed that Odoms had informed the team he was stepping down after being the primary national anthem singer at M&T Bank Stadium for the past three seasons.
"We greatly appreciate the work Joey did for us, and we thank him," the team said in a statement.
The Ravens need to find a new singer for Sunday, when the team plays host to the AFC North rival Pittsburgh Steelers.
"This is not an emotional reaction to recent events, rather an ethical decision that part of me regrets but my core knows is the right choice," Odoms posted on Facebook.
"Thank you so much for the opportunity to grow as a performer and for allowing me to live out a dream of sharing my gift with you."
David Pollack and Booger McFarland react to UCLA quarterback Josh Rosen's comments about how "football and school don't go together."
(1:29)

LOS ANGELES -- Josh Rosen quietly reconnected this summer with his most notable skeptic: Trent Dilfer, the theatrically opinionated former NFL quarterback who in recent years has reinvented himself as a youth quarterback guru.
Their reconciliation came during the Elite 11 competition for the nation's top high school quarterbacks, three years after their first encounter there when Dilfer fumed about Rosen's resistance to his training methods.
Dilfer's frustration with the aggressively inquisitive Rosen would become the top storyline of the Elite 11 documentary broadcast months later.
"Josh, you were the most talked about person this week by far," Dilfer said in the penultimate scene of the show.
"Everybody keeps coming back [to], 'Does he think he knows more than us?'
"

Rosen, then generally considered the nation's top quarterback in the Class of 2015, finished last among the 11 quarterbacks chosen in the finale.
Josh Rosen has never shied away from the spotlight, on or off the field.
Sean M. Haffey/Getty Images

At the invitation of the Elite 11 organizers, Rosen returned in June as one of the college counselors for the high-profile camp.
Dilfer was impressed Rosen accepted the offer, a hint at a thaw in their relationship.
By the time the camp was over, Dilfer had become as much a fan of Rosen the man as he was the quarterback.
"I have nothing but good things to say about him," Dilfer said.
"I've grown to appreciate how he's aware of his impact, his words, his influence, and he's aware of his talent and how good he can be."
Rosen's growth between those Elite 11s -- from local phenom to star quarterback at UCLA -- was the theme of his address to the teen prodigies in attendance, a tale that included the highs and the lows of the past three years.
He was, to Dilfer and the camp organizers, a model alumnus.
Yet as Rosen made clear that summer day and in a handful of public comments since, he aspires to be an atypical Golden Boy, less a bland company man and more an unapologetic advocate.
He created headlines most recently, in an interview last month with Bleacher Report, saying, "football and school don't go together" and "at some point, universities have to do more to prepare players for university life and help them succeed beyond football."
In a time of increasing social unrest and political dissension, Rosen has purposefully positioned himself to be a different sort of leading man.
"It's kind of the position that you are in as an athlete," Rosen said, "and you would hope everyone in the world would stick up for each other."
For all of the promise he shows on the football field (he's projected as one of the top prospects in whichever NFL draft that he enters, 2018 or 2019), many who are close to him -- and some who aren't -- predict his biggest impact probably will come away from it.
"He wants to be great," Dilfer said, "and wants to leverage that influence to do bigger things."
In what figures to be his final year of college football, Rosen has so far made the most news on the field.
Rosen has resoundingly bounced back from his sophomore season, which lasted only six games because of a season-ending shoulder injury, to become the nation's leader in passing yards (1,763) and touchdowns (16) through four games.
He has been one of the Bruins' few bright spots in a disappointing 2-2 start, keeping them in games with a combination of talent and moxie that has nearly fulfilled every expectation that awaited him in Westwood.
Josh Rosen lived up to the hype in a thrilling season-opening win over Texas A&M, as the quarterback led the Bruins back from a 34-point deficit.
Sean M. Haffey/Getty Images

"I think he's great, he's smart, he's funny, and I enjoy him," said Jedd Fisch, Rosen's third offensive coordinator in as many years.
"He comes out to practice and never questions or doubts what we're doing and has been really awesome to coach."
While Rosen might not have been able to turn perennially underachieving UCLA into a contender, his 35-of-59, 491-yard, four-touchdown performance against Texas A&M in the season opener -- which rallied the Bruins from a 34-point second-half deficit to a stunning win -- will surely rank among the most indelible moments in program history.
"My career at UCLA, we've had a lot of times where the chips didn't fall in our favor, and I think it's time that finally it did," Rosen said after the game.
Before that magical September night in the Rose Bowl, Rosen's career at UCLA was known best for bold statements and brash social media posts.
Rosen had never shied away from sharing himself and his opinions with the public, whether posting a video of his dorm-room hot tub as a freshman or wearing a hat with an obscene message meant for Donald Trump -- while golfing at a Trump golf course.
His antics inspired a Sports Illustrated cover in August 2016 that read, in part, "Big Arm?
Big Mouth?"
and later prompted UCLA head coach Jim Mora to ask Rosen if he wanted to be football flameout Johnny Manziel or Tom Brady.
Power moves A post shared by Josh Rosen (@josh3rosen) on Oct 17, 2015 at 12:15pm PDT

Rosen's comments to Bleacher Report last month about the NCAA and the challenges facing college athletes drove at least a couple of news cycles.
Particularly his comment invoking Alabama as an example of a powerhouse program that couldn't sustain its success with higher academic requirements for entry.
"OK, raise the SAT requirement at Alabama and see what kind of team they have," he said.
Mora came to his defense -- "The message to Josh is it's OK to have opinions" -- but also warned him of the consequences for being vocal about his beliefs.
"When you express those opinions in a public forum ... part of the learning process is saying things that come back to bite you a little bit," Mora said on "The Dan Patrick Show" days later.
Within Rosen's locker room and huddle, however, there was no controversy: The Bruins had his back.
"It's crazy the blowback that he receives from the outside world," offensive lineman Scott Quessenberry said.
"So a lot of the time we do back him up.
Actually, all the time we do, because we go through the same struggle as he does and we understand where he's coming from."
Said Jacob Tuioti-Mariner, a defensive end who was also one of Rosen's high school teammates.
"He ended up being our voice."
In the swanky seaside enclave of Manhattan Beach, about 15 miles from the UCLA campus, Rosen's first coach still fondly remembers the precociously agile mind of what he still considers the most talented pupil he has had in 40 years.
"I had to teach Little Josh more advanced stuff to keep him interested," said Steve Whitehead, tennis instructor at the Manhattan Country Club.
"I could see he was getting bored."
Whitehead stills refers to Rosen as "Little Josh," even though his 5-year-old pupil has now grown into a 6-foot-4, 210-pound 20-year-old man.
Whitehead was one of the very first to notice Rosen's voracious appetite for knowledge, and he encouraged it as a way to keep him at the club.
"He would always be like, 'Why?'"
Whitehead said.
"Which is why he got good so early."
By 12, Rosen was ranked nationally and even became the top player in Southern California in his age group.
Whitehead said Rosen then boasted a 105-mph serve, overwhelming for his opponents at that age.
Rosen's interest in the game waned as he found other sports, particularly football.
Soon, Little Josh no longer wanted the drudgery of the youth tennis circuit and his mother brought him to the club to tell Whitehead.
"He was, like, 'By the way, Steve, I'm not playing,'" Whitehead recalled, chuckling.
"It was very casual."
Josh Rosen led St. John Bosco to a California state title in high school as one of the nation's most sought-after recruits.
Gina Ferazzi/Los Angeles Times via Getty Images

Rosen quickly took to football, where his intelligence, coordination, arm strength and throwing motion developed from years of swinging tennis rackets made him the ideal quarterback prospect.
While in middle school, Rosen caught the eye of the coaching staff at St. John Bosco High, an all-boys Catholic school about a 20 miles from Manhattan Beach in Bellflower.
"We definitely thought he must have had some QB guru he had worked with," Bosco coach Jason Negro said.
"But that wasn't the case."
Rosen's talent was obvious even before he made varsity: He earned a scholarship offer from Fresno State as a freshman on junior varsity.
As a junior, in his second year as the starting quarterback on varsity, Rosen led Bosco to a undefeated season, its first state title and a mythical national championship.
However, what stands out most to Negro and his coaching staff from that time was Rosen's seemingly endless desire to learn.
Few of their instructions went without a question from him in return.
Rosen, more than any player they'd ever coached before, wanted to know more than the X's and O's.
He would ask them about everything, from the coaches' decisions to organize practice, to the reason for specific workouts, to the hotels they stayed in on cross-country road games.
"He wants to know the why behind everything," said Chad Johnson, Bosco's offensive coordinator.
"It made [Chad] a better offensive coordinator," Negro said.
"He knew if he had an idea for doing something, he'd better have a good reason for doing it, because Josh was going to want to know why."
Almost no conversation about Rosen passes without someone mentioning his smarts.
His coaches all praise his ability to quickly digest gameplans.
His teammates marvel at his commitment to learning, with Tuioti-Mariner saying, "For God's sake, he reads books on the plane."
And in previous interviews, he repeatedly has deployed his analogy of football as a chess match, going so far as to play a game with his father for a local TV interview in high school.
As a result, it's no wonder those who don't know him well sometimes, if not often, find him overbearing as opposed to analytical.
Rosen, for his part, has acknowledged that not everyone is impressed with his intellectual pursuits.
"I'm too confident for my own good at times," Rosen said as a high school senior in Bruce Feldman's book, "The QB: The Making of Modern Quarterbacks."
"Sometimes I do come off as arrogant in interviews or whatever, but I feel like that's also part of what makes my play what it is," he said.
Back at Bosco, Negro and Johnson still wonder if their patience for Rosen's boundless curiosity might have set him up for problems at the Elite 11 camp the summer before his senior year of high school.
"We knew that it wasn't a disrespectful thing from him -- we just gave him the time of day," Negro said.
"He's not a combative guy; he just wants to have a full understanding of what's going on."
It should come as little surprise that Rosen, who left Bosco as one of the country's top-rated quarterback prospects and rarely met a challenge he couldn't handle, made the transition to UCLA look easy.
He graduated high school early and joined the Bruins in the spring semester of 2015, beating out two upperclassmen for the chance to replace three-year starter Brett Hundley.
His college debut that September at the Rose Bowl was storybook stuff: He went 28-of-35 for 353 yards with three touchdowns in a win over Virginia, one of those performances that immediately thrust him into the national spotlight.
Josh Rosen burst onto the college scene by throwing for 351 yards and three touchdowns in a 34-16 season-opening win over Virginia as a true freshman.
AP Photo/Jae C. Hong

"He exceeded even the wildest dreams of Bruins fans," read a column by Bill Plaschke in the Los Angeles Times following the game.
"Everyone figured he would be good.
Few had any idea that this quickly, he would be this good."
Rosen eagerly -- and intentionally -- embraced his newfound fame and the platform that came with it.
So, yes, he posed for that infamous hot-tub picture.
He also has taken the occasion to show his gratitude for President Barack Obama, who initially placed Rosen's father on the short list for surgeon general in 2008, in a post on Instagram.
Sure, Rosen posted a picture of himself between a pair of UCLA cheerleaders planting kisses on his cheeks.
He also mocked the NCAA's nonprofit status on Twitter in May 2016 after UCLA announced its 15-year, $280 million deal with Under Armour.
Those close to Rosen say he's keenly self-aware and interested in a range of issues away from football, so his public stances probably aren't just impetuous outbursts.
Rosen seemed to suggest as much after his profile in Sports Illustrated last summer, posting on Instagram that, "I will forever stand up for what I believe is right in this world and I encourage every kid on this planet to do exactly the same."
Those words are music to the ears of those who have long advocated on behalf of college athletes and their labor rights.
"There's nothing wrong with Josh talking about the way he feels and highlighting the rights he thinks players should have," said Kain Colter, co-founder of College Athletes Players Association, which has argued for the right of college athletes to collectively bargain.
"He's attempting to talk about issues that affect more than just himself and he has the power to change the game for future generations."
Colter, who gained notoriety for trying to organize a union as a quarterback at Northwestern in 2013, said his organization has had no formal contact with Rosen though former UCLA player and players rights advocate Ramogi Huma has had a few conversations with Rosen.
With probably only a few more games left in Rosen's career at Westwood, he has largely avoided public statements of any kind now that the season is underway.
He entered the season to a bevy of headlines about his lower profile, including a Times column proclaiming him "a shadow of former brash self."
Rosen's social media activity has mostly slowed to a crawl: he has posted only nine times on Twitter in 2017 and his Instagram page has recently been filled with innocuous photos of him in uniform, arm cocked with a football in his hand, or hanging out with family and friends.
UCLA has done its part to shield him from too many microphones and cameras, keeping him from team media events for nearly a year (in large part because of his injury last season) and leaving him at home for Pac-12 media days in July.
The Bruins' media staff declined to make Rosen available for a one-on-one interview for this story, and his parents also refused a request to talk.
"I think it's great that they've tried to sequester him and shield him from some of those things," Negro said.
Added Johnson: "I think he realizes now is not the right time to save the world."
But in light of recent developments, with President Trump -- already a former target of Rosen's ire -- taking aim at NFL players protesting racial inequality, the moment seems especially inviting for those with strong opinions.
Already, some of Rosen's teammates at UCLA have lent their voices to the dissent, even if only to retweet the sentiments of others.
Might Rosen be next, and soon?
"He's becoming a guy that is socially responsible and, you know, understands the meaning of his words and the impact of his words," Mora said.
"There's been some tough lessons along the way but, man, I'm so impressed with him.
It's great to see it all happen right before our eyes."
There have been plenty of surprises so far this college football season, and not all of them involve upsets or last-second rallies.
In fact, every team in the Top 25 has something to be pleasantly surprised about.
Don't look now, but Alabama's offense is becoming more well-rounded by the week.
The running game has obviously been lethal with Damien Harris, Bo Scarbrough and Najee Harris, among others, but the passing game has held up its end of the bargain, as well.
Already, six players have caught touchdown passes, which is only one fewer than all of last season.
-- Alex Scarborough

Dabo Swinney enjoyed a bit of "I told you so" bluster after a win against Boston College, noting that he'd seen his running back group as a strength all offseason despite some outside doubts.
Tough to argue, particularly with the emergence of true freshman Travis Etienne, who with just 23 carries leads the Tigers in rushing and is averaging nearly 13 yards per touch.
-- David M. Hale

True freshman running back Trey Sermon has given the Sooners a boost off the bench, rushing for 148 yards and two touchdowns -- all in the fourth quarter -- in Oklahoma's win over Baylor.
Sermon is now in the top 10 in the Big 12 in rushing, along with starter Abdul Adams.
-- Jake Trotter

We knew the Nittany Lions offense would be good, but how would that defense fare without any proven pass-rushers?
Well, so far they are averaging three sacks a game and rank second nationally in scoring defense (8.3 points per game).
No one has scored more than 19 against Penn State's defense thus far.
-- Dan Murphy

The Trojans already knew that they had one of the Pac-12's best backs in Ronald Jones II, but freshman Stephen Carr has really stolen the show at times.
Through four games, Carr has rushed for 298 yards with three touchdowns on 47 carries (6.3 YPC).
In his short time on the field, Carr has proven to be one of USC's most exciting players to watch.
-- Edward Aschoff

Despite losing a host of defensive talent from last year's team, the Huskies haven't seen much of a drop off on that side of the ball.
Say what you will about the overall talent the Huskies have played against so far, but they are doing their jobs on defense.
So far, teams are averaging just 274 yards and 11.8 points per game.
Washington also has 10 takeaways, including eight interceptions.
-- Aschoff

When you lose your starting quarterback less than a game into the season and throw a freshman to the wolves, you're supposed to struggle.
Well that's not the case at Georgia, where Jake Fromm has been stellar, completing 43 of 69 passes for 650 yards, seven touchdowns and just one interception.
-- Scarborough

Senior defensive end Chase Winovich currently ranks second in the nation with six sacks through four games.
Fellow linemen Rashan Gary and Mo Hurst were supposed to be forces to reckon with in the Wolverine trenches.
Winovich's emergence gives Michigan a balanced and dangerous front four.
-- Murphy

With Kyle Hicks -- the Horned Frogs' 2016 leading rusher -- being banged up a bit so far this season, sophomore running back Darius Anderson has emerged as a reliable option on the ground.
Anderson, a three-star recruit in TCU's 2016 class, is the Big 12's third-leading rusher so far this season, with 422 yards and six touchdowns, including a stellar 160-yard, three-touchdown performance in the Horned Frogs' 44-31 win over then-No.
6 Oklahoma State.
-- Sam Khan Jr.
Freshman Jonathan Taylor officially took over the top spot on the Badgers' deep running back depth chart this week.
He has done more than enough to earn it by rushing for a Big Ten-best 146 yards per game to start his college career.
-- Murphy

Speaking of freshman running backs, the Buckeyes haven't missed a beat while 2016 frosh of the year Mike Weber works through an injury.
J.K. Dobbins' explosive running style has made up for Weber's absence and helped Ohio State as it struggles to launch its much-discussed, deep-passing attack.
-- Murphy

The buzz surrounding QB Josh Jackson was strong all offseason, but the reality has far exceeded any summer hype.
Jackson flourished in the opener against West Virginia, and he has kept up the pace since.
His 11 touchdown passes are eighth-most nationally, and his 9.8 yards per pass rank ninth.
-- Hale

Everyone wondered what this defense would look like without Carl Lawson and Montravius Adams up front.
Well, wonder no longer.
Kevin Steele is fielding one of the best defenses in college football, yielding just 11.25 points per game.
-- Scarborough

Given the turnover in the secondary, the Hurricanes have to be pleased with the emergence of Malek Young.
After starting the final few games of 2016, he has gotten off to a hot start this year, leading the team with 2.5 tackles for loss, and earned ample attention for his interception against Bethune-Cookman that he celebrated by wearing a giant gold chain around his neck.
-- Hale

Tackle DeQuinton Osborne has played like an All-Big 12 defensive lineman at the center of the Oklahoma State defense.
He has five tackles for loss and two sacks while giving the Cowboys an impact presence at the point of attack.
-- Trotter

You know what?
Being 4-0 for the first time since 2001 is a pretty good accomplishment for the Cougars.
Yes, expectations were high coming into the season for Wazzou, but seeing is believing -- especially after losing to FCS opponents in back-to-back openers -- and the Cougars have shown that they are very ready for Friday's marquee matchup with No.
5 USC in Pullman.
-- Aschoff

Running back Malik Williams spent his offseason rehabbing a knee injury but impressed coaches with a strong preseason camp.
Now, he is the featured running back for the Cards and taking on a bigger role, averaging 8.3 yards per carry.
Getting a running game established with its backs is crucial for Louisville as it moves forward this season.
-- Andrea Adelson

The Bulls had a veteran secondary returning and were expected to be much improved this season.
But what has been surprising is their ability to create turnovers.
USF leads the nation with 12 interceptions through four games.
Compare that to last season, when the Bulls had 15 interceptions total.
Devin Abraham leads with three.
-- Adelson

Despite losing All-American running back Donnel Pumphrey and his 2,000 rushing yards, San Diego State has found quite the replacement -- well, sort of.
Rashaad Penny was Pumphrey's backup last year, but he still managed 1,000 yards.
Now, as the full-time starter, he has already registered 716 yards and seven touchdowns in four games, lessening the impact of Pumphrey's departure.
-- Aschoff

We knew that former Oregon receiver Darren Carrington was good, but the speed at which he has integrated himself into Utah's offense has been pretty impressive.
Carrington arrived at Utah over the summer after being dismissed from Oregon, but he has already grabbed a team-high 30 catches for 485 yards and four touchdowns.
-- Aschoff

All Tyrie Cleveland does is make big plays, apparently.
The speedy receiver caught a game-winning touchdown against Tennessee and had another pivotal score against Kentucky.
He ranks sixth in the SEC in receiving yards (259) and is averaging nearly 20 yards per catch.
-- Scarborough

The Irish defense produced only 16 turnovers in all of 2016.
It has nine under new defensive coordinator Mike Elko in the first third of the year.
Even more impressive?
Eight of those nine takeaways have been turned into touchdowns either immediately or during the following possession on offense.
-- Murphy

After trying to play quarterback again at a juco, David Sills has returned to West Virginia to become Will Grier's go-to guy at receiver.
Sills leads the country with seven TD catches to go along with 26 receptions and 396 receiving yards.
-- Trotter

For the past two seasons, State's offensive line had been a mess, failing to protect the quarterback or produce running lanes for its tailbacks.
Not so anymore.
Nick Fitzgerald has emerged as one of the best quarterbacks in the league thanks to his line, and Aeris Williams ranks fourth in the SEC in rushing yards (360).
-- Scarborough

Did anyone have a safety leading LSU in sacks?
For that matter, did anyone have a player not named Arden Key at the top of the list?
Nonetheless, safety Corey Thompson has been a one-man wrecking crew with four sacks already this season.
-- Scarborough
Our NFL Insiders predict Week 4's biggest upsets and fantasy flops and sleepers.
Plus: Which undefeated team will finish the season as a No.
1 seed?
And is it time to stick a fork in the Giants?
What's your top upset pick for Week 4?
Dan Graziano, NFL writer: 49ers over Cardinals.
Yeah, I know it's in Arizona, but the Cardinals just don't look right without David Johnson, and Larry Fitzgerald can't play Superman every week (I don't think).
The Niners' offense was clicking pretty well the last time we saw them, and they come into this game with 10 days of rest while the Cardinals will have had only six.
Give me Kyle Shanahan for his first win as a head coach in this one.
Editor's Picks Week 4 NFL Power Rankings: Let's talk about your QB Tom Brady and his 40-year-old arm are carrying the Patriots.
Deshaun Watson continues to improve.
And Joe Flacco isn't looking so elite.
Here's how all 32 teams (and their quarterbacks) stack up so far.
Settle down, Seahawks fans: Why it's not time to panic -- yet There are similarities and differences compared to past Seahawks teams that will influence Seattle's trajectory following a 1-2 start to this season, and there is one critical factor that could be what defines the 2017 version.
1 Related

KC Joyner, NFL writer: Browns over Bengals.
Even after the good game against Green Bay, the Bengals are still the only offense to average less than one point per drive (0.72).
Add in the fact the game is in Cleveland and it has the makings of an upset.
Aaron Schatz, editor-in-chief of Football Outsiders: Giants over Buccaneers.
Both of these defenses have regressed significantly from how well they played last year, but I think the Giants have more talent to reverse that decline, especially with the Bucs' Gerald McCoy hobbling with an injury.
The Giants have the cornerbacks to cover Tampa's great receivers, which should make for a close game despite the issues with the New York offensive line.
Mike Sando, senior NFL writer: Texans over Titans.
Both teams are coming off hard-fought games played in warm temperatures against playoff teams.
Houston won at home against Tennessee in Week 4 last season despite Brock Osweiler tossing two picks.
The Texans were coincidentally coming off a road loss to the Patriots in that game also.
Field Yates, NFL Insider: Chargers over Eagles.
While some would posit that the Chargers are better than their 0-3 record indicates, as Bill Parcells said, "You are what your record says you are."
So that makes them an upset pick over the Eagles this week in my book.
Los Angeles still has plenty of offensive horsepower to take advantage of a banged-up Eagles secondary.
The Falcons missed the playoffs the last time they started 3-0 (2015).
Rey Del Rio/Getty Images

The Chiefs and Falcons are the only two undefeated teams left.
Will either be the 1-seed in the AFC or NFC come January?
Graziano: The Patriots still probably end up with the top seed in the AFC after the Chiefs and the rest of the AFC West beat each other up all year.
But over in the NFC, I think you have to make the Falcons your favorite.
The East is going to be a crazy dogfight.
The Vikings and Lions both look as if they'll at least make things tough on the Packers in the North.
And the Seahawks look as if something is seriously wrong with them.
At this point, Atlanta is the favorite to come out of the NFC as the top seed, though obviously anything can happen.
Joyner: Dallas might be the only NFC team capable of beating the Falcons for the No.
1 seed, but the Cowboys' offensive line changes led to their having their worst blocking performance in the past two seasons against Denver and are a bad sign for the near future.
Kansas City is dominating right now, largely due to incredibly strong run blocking, but they don't have a Plan B for when the run blocking starts to falter.
That will open the door for New England, Pittsburgh or Oakland to win the top seed in the AFC.
Schatz: Football Outsiders playoff odds have the Chiefs (33 percent) with stronger chances of winning the No.
1 seed than the Falcons (24 percent), and the Chiefs are the best team in our ratings so far this season.
But I also think the Chiefs face better competition for that top spot.
We still have Pittsburgh with a 27 percent chance to get the top seed despite their shocking (but nonconference loss), and while the Patriots' chances seem low at 8.3 percent, let's be honest, we all look at what the Patriots have done after poor starts in recent seasons and think that percentage is way too low.
So I say the Falcons get it, but the Chiefs do not.
Sando: The Patriots can still snag the No.
1 seed in the AFC if they improve, which they usually do, and if Kansas City gets bogged down during AFC West divisional play, which is reasonable to expect.
Atlanta is looking good in the NFC, and I lean the Falcons' way after they beat Green Bay.
However, I don't think we've heard the end of Seattle just yet.
Yates: One of the major hurdles for the Chiefs is that the division they play in is so strong.
Denver and Oakland figure to stay in the playoff hunt, while the Chargers hung tough in Week 3.
Along those lines, the path to the No.
1 seed feels clearer still for New England, though the Patriots must improve on defense in a hurry.
The Falcons feel like the best team in the NFC to me, especially when Vic Beasley Jr. returns to the lineup.
Who's your pick to be the biggest fantasy flop this weekend?
Graziano: Derek Carr, QB, Raiders.
Neither Raiders fans nor fantasy players with Raiders on their rosters are going to want to hear this after Sunday night's all-around flop, but Week 4 looks even tougher.
The Broncos are at home, where their defense absolutely stifled the Cowboys' offense in Week 2.
This doesn't feel like a get-right game for Carr or his otherwise impressive group of receivers.
Joyner: Amari Cooper, WR, Raiders.
Cooper has tallied only 101 receiving yards in three games and has scored only 8.9 fantasy points over the past two weeks.
Facing the Broncos' trio of dominant cornerbacks at Denver is not a recipe to turn around that trend.
Schatz: Dez Bryant, WR, Cowboys.
The Rams' defense has been much stronger against the pass than the run this year, which is a good recipe for Ezekiel Elliott to finally have a breakout game and Dak Prescott to throw less.
Combine that with the Rams having a No.
1 corner (Trumaine Johnson) clearly better than their other corners, and it suggests a tough game for Bryant.
Sando: Marcus Mariota, QB, Titans.
Mariota had eight fantasy points at Houston last season in his only career game against the Texans.
I already went out on a limb in picking Houston to win the game.
I'll stay there by saying the Texans will again keep Mariota in check.
Yates: Amari Cooper, WR, Raiders.
Continuing the theme of Raiders, I'll echo what KC said about Cooper.
It has been a curiously slow start for him.
The talent is apparent in certain weeks, but it's inexplicable how he can have others in which he manages just a single catch.
The Broncos' secondary is outstanding.
Since the NFL went to 12 playoff teams in 1990, only three teams have gone on to make the playoffs after starting 0-3: the 1998 Bills, 1995 Lions and 1992 Chargers.
Elsa/Getty Images

The Giants are 0-3 and still have to play the entire AFC West.
Should we stick a fork in them?
Graziano: No.
I think you can nudge them with the tip of that fork, just to see if there's any movement.
But the NFC East doesn't look like the type of division that anyone is going to run away with.
Don't get me wrong -- Sunday was a crushing loss for the Giants, and they have major problems, especially with everyone else in the division at 2-1.
The odds are strongly against them winning the division and reaching the playoffs.
Their hope, if they have one, is that the division becomes a messy jumble (everyone else in their division is playing the West too) and can be won with nine or even eight wins.
This is not a completely far-fetched hope, which is why I say no fork just yet.
Joyner: The Giants are 0-2 in division and 0-3 in conference and are thus at a significant tiebreaking disadvantage.
New York also has road contests against Tampa Bay, Washington (on a short week) and Arizona, plus home matchups against Seattle, the surprisingly powerful Rams, Dallas, Philadelphia and Washington.
Big Blue will have to go 9-4 the rest of the way to make the postseason, and that isn't happening under these circumstances.
Schatz: Football Outsiders playoff odds give the Giants a 4.4 percent chance of making the playoffs.
Only Cleveland and San Francisco have lower odds.
Even if they upset Tampa Bay this week, as I think they might, those odds go up to only 7.7 percent.
Fork away, kids.
Sando: ESPN's Football Power Index is giving the Giants a 4 percent shot at reaching the playoffs.
Four percent!
The Giants still have games against Tampa Bay, Seattle, Kansas City, Oakland and Dallas, so it is looking bleak.
I do think the NFC East is unsettled enough to keep open the door more than 4 percent, however.
I'm sticking two prongs of the fork into the Giants.
Yates: Yes.
The odds are stacked decidedly against any team that starts the season 0-3.
But in a division in which any other team could seemingly win said division?
The Giants have dug themselves a hole that is simply too large to escape from, especially as they become a more predictable offense given their chemical imbalance between run and passing efficiency.
Pick a fringe fantasy player who should be started in Week 4.
Graziano: Mohamed Sanu, WR, Falcons.
I like the matchup against Buffalo's thin secondary, especially factoring in the likelihood that the Bills will focus coverage on Julio Jones.
The Falcons will be at home, where Sanu had five catches for 85 yards two weeks ago against the Packers.
He's a guy teammates were praising as a potential breakout candidate this summer, and I think there's some good production still to come there.
If you need an injury replacement or are rotating WR3s in a league, try out Sanu this week.
Joyner: Travis Benjamin, WR, Chargers.
He has posted two double-digit point games this year and yet is owned in only 1.4 percent of ESPN leagues.
A Week 4 matchup against an Eagles defense that ranks 30th in fantasy points allowed to opponents' wide receivers (122) could make it three double-digit games for Benjamin.
Schatz: Frank Gore, RB, Colts.
The Seattle defense has been surprisingly poor against the run this year, 30th in run defense DVOA, and Jacoby Brissett helps open holes by presenting a threat of run on options or play-action bootlegs.
Sando: Jared Goff, QB, Rams.
Goff is interesting when considering his better-than-expected start and the Cowboys' issues in the secondary.
The Rams are coming off a long week after playing the Thursday night game.
Dallas has a short week after winning at Arizona on Monday night.
The Cowboys' rushing attack could help Dallas blow open the game, but even that could lead to more passing opportunities for Goff.
Yates: Robert Woods, WR, Rams.
Woods is a name that should merit some flex consideration in deeper leagues.
He has been the Rams' busiest receiver in snaps played this season, as he plays on nearly every down.
Sammy Watkins is in the concussion protocol, and a missed game would likely result in even more work for Woods.
Forget about their contracts.
Which 24-or-under receiver would you most want on your team and why: Brandin Cooks, Stefon Diggs, Michael Thomas or Sammy Watkins?
Graziano: Thomas, though Diggs is closing fast.
Thomas has that dominator size at the wide receiver position and has shown an ability to be used in a variety of roles early in his career.
Cooks feels more one-trick-ponyish, and, of course, Watkins might be the most talented of the bunch but hasn't shown an ability to stay healthy.
Diggs could be breaking out into something special right now, but I'll still give the slight edge to Thomas.
Joyner: Cooks.
Last year, 551 of his 1,180 yards (if penalties are included) and four of his eight touchdowns occurred at the stretch vertical level (aerials thrown 20 or more yards downfield).
That was good enough for Bill Belichick to make Cooks the stretch vertical threat of his offense, and that's more than enough to win my vote.
Schatz: Thomas.
Last year, playing in the same offense with the same quarterback, he had a higher DVOA rating than Cooks on both deep passes (16-plus yards through the air) and shorter passes.
He's also taller and more physical.
As much as I love Cooks and also Diggs, I would take Thomas.
Watkins just has too many health issues to take over the other three.
Sando: I'll take Thomas for his combination of size, production and availability to this point in his career.
Yates: Watkins, but there's no wrong answer here.
Watkins is a technician as a route runner and has exceptional speed.
He had modest production in three years with Buffalo, in part due to a ground-heavy offense that he played in, but also because of a history of injuries.
But from a traits perspective, there's so much to love about his game, as he can dominate in any one-on-one matchup.
Tom Brady and Aaron Rodgers showed why they're among the all-time greats on Sunday, while Derek Carr and Cam Newton fell flat.
So how did it all impact the NFL Power Rankings?
(1:00)

Here's a rundown of our Week 4 Power Rankings as determined by ESPN's power panel -- a group of more than 80 writers, editors and TV personalities -- with a special focus on all 32 starting quarterbacks.
Editor's Picks Three best, three worst QBs of Week 3: Pricey passers fall flat Jared Goff had the game of his life, while Cam Newton had a day to forget.
What we learned (and didn't) in Week 3: Where second-year coaches stand Doug Pederson's Eagles were the only team led by a second-year coach to win this weekend.
The other four lost in excruciating fashion.
Pederson, though, wasn't exempt from criticism.
Here are Week 3's lessons.
1 Related

We'll take a look at their performances so far this season using ESPN's Total QBR, an efficiency stat that measures all of a quarterback's contributions to winning.
It is measured on a 1-to-100 scale; an average quarterback will have a QBR of about 50, while a Pro Bowl-level player will have a QBR of about 75.
ESPN Stats & Information's John McTigue contributed the following information.
Methodology: These rankings reflect which teams voters think would win head-to-head matchups.
Higher-ranked teams would be favored against lower-ranked teams.
Coming off a win doesn't guarantee a jump, and a loss doesn't guarantee a fall.
Previous rankings: Week 3 | Week 2 | Preseason

2017 record: 3-0

Week 3 ranking: No.
1

Matt Ryan: 71.2 Total QBR.
Ryan snapped a streak of 309 pass attempts without an interception by throwing three picks in a span of 15 passes against the Lions.
The Falcons still won despite this, and with home games against the Bills and Dolphins coming up, they could very well be 5-0 heading into a Super Bowl rematch against the Patriots in Week 7.
2017 record: 3-0

Week 3 ranking: No.
2

Alex Smith: 51.7 Total QBR.
Smith is completing a league-best 77 percent of his passes and leads the NFL with three touchdowns on passes thrown 30 or more yards downfield.
The Chiefs will need that efficiency and deep passing to continue, as their next seven games are against teams that finished last season above .500.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
4

Tom Brady: 76.5 Total QBR.
Brady leads the league in passing yards (1,092) and Total QBR, and he has yet to throw an interception this season.
With the Patriots' defense currently ranking last in points allowed, New England will continue to rely on Brady's 40-year-old arm to get it through games.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
6

Aaron Rodgers: 52.7 Total QBR.
Rodgers has one touchdown and three interceptions in the first half of games this season, compared to five touchdowns and no picks in the second half.
The Packers are 2-1, but Rodgers will have to get off to better starts, especially with upcoming road games against the Cowboys and Vikings.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
7

Trevor Siemian: 58.8 Total QBR.
The Bills have allowed the fewest points per game this season, so Siemian's 36 Total QBR in Week 3 can be forgiven.
If he does the same this week against the Raiders, who have allowed the worst QBR so far (74), there might not be as much forgiveness.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
3

Ben Roethlisberger: 55.4 Total QBR.
Roethlisberger's Total QBR over the past three seasons has been 20 points worse on the road than at home.
The Steelers play four of their first six games on the road this season and still have trips to Baltimore and Kansas City in the coming weeks.
Roethlisberger's relatively slow start could get a lot slower as a result.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
5

Derek Carr: 43.9 Total QBR.
Carr hasn't completed a pass thrown more than 20 yards downfield this season.
The short-passing attack worked over the first few weeks, but Carr didn't come through when it got shut down in Week 3.
With the Broncos and Ravens coming up, Carr will need to show he can go vertical again.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
12

Matthew Stafford: 64.6 Total QBR.
Stafford ranks fifth in Total QBR, and it would be even better had Golden Tate not been ruled down at the end of the Falcons game.
A pair of stingy defenses await in the Vikings and Panthers over the next two weeks, but Stafford's efficiency should make the Lions a tough foe for anyone.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
8

Dak Prescott: 60.8 Total QBR.
Sometimes less is more.
Prescott needed to throw only 18 passes Monday, but he averaged 10.2 yards per attempt, a big improvement from his 5.7 average from his first two games.
Balance is key for the Cowboys and will continue to be with upcoming games against the Rams and Packers.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
14

Marcus Mariota: 56.6 Total QBR.
The Titans have two wins even with Mariota off to a modest start, throwing for just three touchdowns in three games.
Tennessee plays three of its next four on the road, which could actually be a benefit to Mariota.
His QBR is 14 points higher on the road (62) than at home (48) in his career.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
16

Case Keenum: 75.8 Total QBR.
Keenum posted a 94.6 Total QBR in Week 3, the best single-game QBR of the season.
Sam Bradford posted a 92.0 QBR in Week 1, the third best of the season.
The Vikings are rolling no matter the quarterback right now, and that will need to continue with three straight division games coming up.
2017 record: 1-2

Week 3 ranking: No.
9

Russell Wilson: 49.0 Total QBR.
The good news is Wilson hasn't thrown an interception yet this season, but he has yet to complete more than 60 percent of his passes in a game.
Wilson's Total QBR currently ranks 20th, and a home game against the Colts might be just what the doctor ordered to get back on track.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
15

Carson Wentz: 63.7 Total QBR.
Wentz is coming through when it matters for the Eagles, posting the fourth-best Total QBR in the second half of games so far this season (74).
Wentz has games against the Chargers and Cardinals before getting a chance to shine (or flicker) in a pair of prime-time affairs.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
17

Kirk Cousins: 47.0 Total QBR.
Cousins averaged nearly twice as many yards per attempt (12.2) in Week 3 than he did in the first two weeks of the season (6.3).
He'll need more performances like last week's with upcoming road games against the Chiefs, Eagles and Seahawks.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
26

Tyrod Taylor: 59.6 Total QBR.
Despite losing most of his favorite targets this offseason, Taylor currently sits ninth in Total QBR.
Don't be surprised, though -- he finished in the top 10 in both 2015 and 2016, too.
He'll try to grind out more yards and wins on the road over the next two weeks with stops in Atlanta and Cincinnati.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
22

Jared Goff: 68.5 Total QBR.
Goff is averaging a league-best 10.1 yards per attempt this season, and he also has the fourth-best Total QBR.
He ranked last in both in 2016.
The new Rams offense will have some tougher challenges coming up though, with games against the Cowboys, Seahawks and surprising Jaguars.
2017 record: 1-2

Week 3 ranking: No.
20

Deshaun Watson: 64.2 Total QBR.
Watson leads all quarterbacks in rushing, but he has improved his completion percentage and passing yardage in every game this season.
With the Titans, Chiefs and Seahawks on the schedule for three of Houston's next four games, his continued improvement will be crucial to any postseason aspirations for the Texans.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
10

Joe Flacco: 24.1 Total QBR.
Remember all of those deep balls Flacco hit during the Ravens' 2012 Super Bowl run?
Fast-forward to 2017 and Flacco's average pass distance is shortest in the NFL and led to the second-worst Total QBR.
The Steelers and Raiders await the Ravens the next two weeks, so Flacco needs to figure it out soon.
2017 record: 1-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
11

Jameis Winston: 47.3 Total QBR.
Winston followed up an interception-less season opener with three picks in Week 3.
Coach Dirk Koetter told him that limiting mistakes would be key toward making the next step.
With the Giants and Patriots coming up, it would help to take that next step ASAP.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
25

Blake Bortles: 48.1 Total QBR.
Over the past three seasons, Bortles is 3-0 with a 69 Total QBR in London games.
Unfortunately for him, he's 7-25 everywhere else in that time with a sub-45 QBR.
Bortles is not only back on American soil, but will be on the road for three of the next four games.
2017 record: 1-2

Week 3 ranking: No.
21

Carson Palmer: 50.8 Total QBR.
Palmer had his best passing game of the season Monday night, but six sacks were too much to overcome.
He's now 1-9-1 when taking four or more sacks as a Cardinal, and unfortunately for him and Arizona, he'll be facing defensive linemen such as Fletcher Cox, Gerald McCoy and Aaron Donald in upcoming weeks.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
13

Cam Newton: 25.6 Total QBR.
In his past 16 games, Newton has thrown 16 touchdowns and 16 interceptions and completed 54 percent of his passes.
If he doesn't shape up, the Panthers could be in trouble, as four of their next five are on the road.
2017 record: 1-2

Week 3 ranking: No.
27

Mike Glennon: 27.8 Total QBR.
Glennon's average pass has been the second shortest in the NFL so far this season, which hasn't helped his overall efficiency, since his Total QBR ranks 27th in the league.
With games against the Packers, Vikings, Ravens and Panthers upcoming, we might see Mitchell Trubisky sooner rather than later.
2017 record: 1-2

Week 3 ranking: No.
24

Drew Brees: 60.8 Total QBR.
This is the longest into a season Brees has gone without an interception, and the Saints are the only team in the NFL without a giveaway.
With the least efficient defense in the league, the Saints will need Brees to be flawless.
Let's see if Brees can continue protecting the ball against the Dolphins in London this week.
2017 record: 0-3

Week 3 ranking: No.
28

Andy Dalton: 16.6 Total QBR.
Despite a solid effort against the Packers, Dalton still owns the worst Total QBR at 16.5.
It might not get better anytime soon.
The Bengals' next two games are at Cleveland, where Dalton has a career 36.1 Total QBR, and then home against the Bills, who have allowed the fewest points per game this season.
2017 record: 1-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
18

Jay Cutler: 42.0 Total QBR.
Cutler surprised with a 60 Total QBR in Week 2, but his 22 QBR in Week 3 against the lowly Jets' defense might have surprised even more.
If he can't do better against the Saints' defense this week in London, we might know who the "real" Jay Cutler is.
2017 record: 0-3

Week 3 ranking: No.
24

Philip Rivers: 49.5 Total QBR.
After three touchdowns in Week 1, Rivers has one passing touchdown over the past two weeks, the same as Ryan Mallett, Jacoby Brissett and Kevin Hogan.
He'll have to do more with the Chargers' upcoming schedule: Eagles, Giants, Raiders, Broncos and Patriots.
If not, they could be staring 0-4, 0-5, 0-6 or worse in the face.
2017 record: 0-3

Week 3 ranking: No.
19

Eli Manning: 42.6 Total QBR.
He might be completing 74 percent of his passes this season, but Manning's Total QBR ranks 25th in the NFL.
He seemed to right the ship in the fourth quarter on Sunday with three touchdowns, so we'll see if he can carry that momentum into Tampa this week.
2017 record: 0-3

Week 3 ranking: No.
31

Brian Hoyer: 27.2 Total QBR.
Hoyer has thrown an interception in every game this season after not throwing any all of last year, leading to the fifth-worst Total QBR in the NFL.
If he's going to turn it around, he'll have to do it on the road.
The 49ers' next three games are all away.
2017 record: 1-2

Week 3 ranking: No.
30

Jacoby Brissett: 50.9 Total QBR.
Brissett has more rushing touchdowns (three) in his career than passing (one), but his two rushing touchdowns in Week 3 helped the Colts earn their first win of the season.
He'll likely need to yield more from his arm with a trip to Seattle looming this weekend, assuming Andrew Luck is still out.
2017 record: 1-2

Week 3 ranking: No.
31

Josh McCown: 53.2 Total QBR.
After throwing two picks in the opener, McCown has posted a 68 Total QBR over the past two weeks, which is the fourth best in that span.
Will it continue?
The Jaguars, who own the second-best opponent QBR this season, are next.
2017 record: 0-3

Week 3 ranking: No.
29

DeShone Kizer: 26.6 Total QBR.
Kizer has the fourth-worst Total QBR this season, but there is some good news.
Well, kind of.
His QBR through three career starts is better than Brandon Weeden's and Johnny Manziel's, so that's good.
The Bengals and Jets are up next for the Browns, so there's hope for improvement.
Brandon Ingram expresses how impressed he is with competiveness of the Lakers' rookies, including Lonzo Ball, and he reveals how Magic Johnson told him he was going to have a breakout year.
(0:53)

EL SEGUNDO, Calif. -- With cameras and cellphones all focused on Lonzo Ball hoisting up a few shots at the end of the Lakers' first practice of the season, Brandon Ingram went about his business quietly.
The soft-spoken Ingram could get used to this.
"I like that," Ingram said of all the attention focused on Ball.
Editor's Picks Will Brandon Ingram break out or bust in Year 2?
The former No.
2 overall pick disappointed as a rookie.
Is this the year he becomes a star in L.A.?
Magic concerned only with how Lonzo plays Magic Johnson said he isn't concerned about anything LaVar Ball does or the attention surrounding the Balls off the court unless it impacts Lonzo's game.
Lonzo Ball thinks all the attention will make him a target this season.
1 Related

If Magic Johnson is as good at predictions as he was at winning, Ingram won't be flying under the radar for very long.
While the basketball world watches to see what this year's No.
2 overall pick can do, what shoes Ball will wear and even what he ate for breakfast (he had waffles with eggs sunny side up by the way), the Lakers and Johnson are banking on last year's second pick to make noise this season.
"I think this is going to be a breakout season for BI," Johnson said.
"We need him to step up and be the leading scorer on this team and really be aggressive on the offensive end."
Johnson not only is talking about Ingram as a potential candidate for Most Improved Player, but he's already envisioning Ingram and Ball as a "Showtime"-like pairing.
"I think him and Lonzo will have a great chemistry, like myself and James Worthy used to have where I knew I could look at James and he knew," Johnson said.
"I knew what was going to happen and he knew what was going to happen.
And James got out on that wing and boy, there was nobody in basketball like James Worthy being out on that wing.
It is going to be the same with those two guys."
There's a lot the Lakers want to put on Ingram's shoulders this season.
Besides having a breakout season and leading the team in scoring as Johnson says, head coach Luke Walton wants to see Ingram become a "great defender" this season.
And GM Rob Pelinka is already touting Ingram as the team's vocal leader.
"They are challenging me in all ways," Ingram said.
"They are going to coach me even harder just to be the player they want me to be."
With Lonzo Ball around, Brandon Ingram will be able to work out of the spotlight most of this season.
Jayne Kamin-Oncea-USA TODAY Sports

Ingram says he has been working out since May 15, so much so that the Lakers said they have had to tell him and some of the other young players not to come into the gym on some nights and take it easy.
"Sometimes I snuck in," Ingram said with a chuckle.
Ingram might sneak back up on people this season.
Even though he was drafted second behind Philadelphia's Ben Simmons in 2016, Ingram didn't start to feel comfortable until late in his rookie season, which finished with him averaging 9.4 points, 4.0 rebounds and just 40.2 percent shooting overall and 29.4 percent from 3-point range.
The 20-year-old, though, started to show a glimpse of what he can do after the All-Star break, scoring in double figures in 18 of his final 21 games.
With Johnson tutoring him on how to finish at the rim, the 6-foot-9 Ingram gained more confidence even if he had a lot more muscle to add to his 190-pound frame.
During the summer league opener in Las Vegas, Ingram scored 26 points before suffering a leg cramp.
The Lakers had seen enough, shutting him down for precautionary reasons for the rest of summer league.
But that isn't where his summer ended.
At the team's facility, Ingram often was the loudest voice on the court, according to many of the Lakers.
This might come as a surprise since he is so soft spoken off the court.
"The word that comes to mind with him is leadership," Pelinka said.
"He's one of our other leaders.
The way he's done it is he is fiercely competitive.
A lot of the pickup games, he's the guy that's going at you and trying to take you over.
I think the improvement we've seen in his skills, his strength and just his confidence level is just unbelievable ... when I think of him, I think of the Laker leader.
He's definitely that for us this year."
With such a young team featuring a rookie point guard like Ball, Ingram hopes to be a leader in his second year.
Walton would love to see Ingram do some leading with his defense and long wingspan.
The team has been preaching defense from the top to bottom of the organization.
Brandon Ingram played only one game at summer league but was a regular at the Lakers' facility all summer.
Stephen R. Sylvanie/USA TODAY Sports

"I would like him to become a great defender this year," Walton said.
"I have no idea if it'll happen or not.
It will happen during his career.
The guy covers six feet with every slide he takes."
For now, Ingram is more than content with Ball earning all the attention.
That might change a bit once the season starts if Ingram performs the way Johnson envisions.
"[Johnson told me] just to motivate these guys," Ingram said.
"He tells me every day that I am going to kill it this season and going to have a breakout year and just to be a leader.
Just try to come out here every day and bring a competitive spirit and try to lead these guys and be the best player that I can be."
As the Los Angeles Dodgers' best and most acclaimed player, Clayton Kershaw will be pitching under some heavy scrutiny in October.
That's a function of his glossy resume, $215 million contract and checkered postseason history.
Judging from Kershaw's penchant for barking at himself beneath his glove during games -- or simulated games -- no one will be tougher on him than he'll be on himself.
Yu Darvish, a pending free agent, is also on the spot as Kershaw's main wingman in the rotation.
The Dodgers took the plunge and acquired Darvish from the Texas Rangers on July 31, even after he allowed 10 runs in his trade-deadline showcase.
He's 4-3 with a 3.44 ERA as a Dodger, but his best outings have come against the Mets, Padres, Giants and Phillies, who are a combined 106 games below .500.
The competition will be stiffer in October.
The two pitchers most likely to slot in behind Kershaw and Darvish in the rotation are less renowned but every bit as motivated.
Rich Hill and Alex Wood, left-handers separated by an 11-year age gap, are diligently working toward October in preparation for postseason starts in the No.
3 and No.
4 spots.
Even if no one else seems to be paying much attention, the Dodgers are fully aware of how important they are.
Editor's Picks Dodgers' Kyle Farmer, Alex Wood share a tattoo tribute to paralyzed former teammate While two former Georgia Bulldogs attempt to help Los Angeles to its first World Series in nearly 30 years, inspiration from an unbreakable bond with a close friend who can no longer play the game he loves is never far away.
What has changed for the Dodgers and Indians?
Nothing -- and everything On Sept. 3, the Dodgers were World Series favorites.
On Sept. 8, the Indians were.
In those five days, no players switched teams, and the standings held firm.
But sometimes September games matter -- even when they don't.
Olney: A Dodgers-Nats clash?
Red Sox-Yankees revisited?
Playoff matchups we want to see There's something special about every October series.
But from a high-stakes NL duel to rivals meeting on the big stage, these possibilities stand out.
2 Related

As Los Angeles plays out the regular season, questions keep coming at manager Dave Roberts.
Corey Seager has a balky elbow that hinders his throwing, and his offensive production has dropped off in September.
Yasiel Puig and Roberts are butting heads over the outfielder's lack of focus.
Curtis Granderson and Yasmani Grandal are hitting a combined .151 (18-for-119) in September, and the Dodgers are moving Kenta Maeda from the rotation to the bullpen to help fill the void created by September fades from Pedro Baez and Ross Stripling.
The Dodgers' rotation depth bodes well for October, but the starters need to find the success they had earlier this season.
L.A.'s starters rank ninth in the National League with a 4.35 ERA in September, while the Dodgers have logged a 10-16 record this month.
The franchise's recent October history shows that poor performances at the back of the rotation can be a severe drag on postseason ambitions.
Back-end blues Since 2013, the Dodgers have had 12 postseason starts from pitchers not named Clayton Kershaw or Zack Greinke.
Here are the results for each: Pitcher (Year) IP H ER Ricky Nolasco (2013) 4 3 3 Hyun-Jin Ryu ('13) 3 6 4 Hyun-Jin Ryu ('13) 7 3 0 Hyun-Jin Ryu ('14) 6 5 1 Brett Anderson ('15) 3 7 6 Kenta Maeda ('16) 3 5 4 Kenta Maeda ('16) 4 4 3 Kenta Maeda ('16) 3.2 3 1 Julio Urias ('16) 3.2 4 4 Rich Hill ('16) 4.1 6 4 Rich Hill ('16) 2.1 3 1 Rich Hill ('16) 6 2 0

The Dodgers have appeared in 30 postseason games, winning 13, since capturing the first of five straight division titles in 2013.
Kershaw posted a 4-6 record with a 4.28 ERA in 12 starts during that stretch.
Zack Greinke was uniformly excellent in the playoffs during his tenure with the team (2-2 with a 2.38 ERA and a strikeout-to-walk ratio of 41-to-5 in six October outings), and Hyun-Jin Ryu threw two excellent games around one clunker during the 2013 and 2014 playoffs.
The other pitchers?
Not so much.
Julio Urias, Maeda, Brett Anderson, Ricky Nolasco and Hill made a combined nine postseason starts from 2013 to 2016 with largely nondescript results: Their cumulative output consisted of a 6.88 ERA in 34 innings and a lot of early hooks by Roberts and his predecessor, Don Mattingly.
When Hill threw six shutout innings to beat the Cubs in Game 3 of the 2016 NLCS, he became the only starter in that group to go more than five innings in an outing.
Roberts and his staff have reason to hope for better this time.
Hill is a year removed from the blister problems that kept Roberts on the top step of the dugout in the final weeks of the 2016 season.
Since the All-Star break, Hill has struck out 86 hitters and walked 18 in 67 2/3 innings, and he has held opposing lineups to a .206 batting average in that span.
Hill's 89 mph average velocity ranks among the pokiest in the majors.
But he has pinpoint control and complements it with one of baseball's best curveballs.
His fastball also gets on hitters with deceptive alacrity.
"Richie throws the hardest 90 I've ever seen,'' Dodgers catcher Austin Barnes said recently.
"Hitters seem to have trouble with it sometimes.
He'll throw a pitch, and I'll look at the radar gun, and it will surprise me because it looks like it was in the mid-90s.''
Rich Hill showed he could handle the pressure of pitching in October during a strong 2016 NLCS outing against the Cubs.
Will he add to his postseason resume this time around?
AP Photo/Mark J. Terrill

Hill, 37, has traveled a long, hard road to get to this point.
He has pitched for eight teams in the majors, and five of those stops -- with the Angels, Indians, Yankees, Orioles and Athletics -- were for one-year cameos.
Hill also pitched briefly with the Long Island Ducks of the independent Atlantic League in 2015 before working his way back to the majors and landing a three-year, $48 million deal with the Dodgers in December.
Hill and his wife, Caitlin, had to cope with the death of their infant son, Brooks, from multiple medical issues in the spring of 2014, and he has since embraced a "live for today'' mantra that precludes him from making assumptions or taking anything for granted.
Even when Hill suffered one of MLB's most crushing losses in recent memory -- pitching nine no-hit innings in Pittsburgh in late August and losing the game and the no-no on a Josh Harrison home run in the 10th -- he treated it like just another day at the yard.
While his teammates agonized over their failure to score a run on his behalf, Hill talked about getting back in the gym the next day, as if it were just a garden-variety loss.
"You can take that Pittsburgh game, or any game I've pitched within the last three years, and it's a completely different mindset than when I was 25 or 26 or 27 years old in the big leagues,'' Hill said.
"Back then, it was more about the result than it was about the moment.
Instead of trying to focus on having the ball come out of [my] hand the way I wanted, I was more caught up in what the end result was going to be.
"At end of day, it's about competing and bringing that intensity.
To me, that's always going to outweigh the scouting reports or anything on paper.
When you have that conviction behind the pitch, it doesn't matter how hard you're throwing or what the radar gun says.''
An All-Star for the Dodgers after a dominant first half of the 2017 season, Alex Wood could provide a major lift at the back of the team's postseason rotation.
AP Photo/Matt York

Before Tuesday night, it appeared that Wood was a lock to fill the fourth spot in L.A.'s postseason rotation.
But Roberts is still weighing the alternatives and has declined to fully commit to Wood as an October starter.
One option for the Dodgers is to shift Wood to the bullpen and start Ryu, who recently took a line drive off his left forearm and threw a 34-pitch bullpen session Tuesday.
The Dodgers could also use Kershaw on short rest in the postseason, although that might be risky given his recent history of back issues.
Wood, 26, broke into pro ball with the Atlanta organization as a second-round pick out of Georgia in 2012 before heading to Los Angeles as part of a three-team, 13-player trade in July 2015.
In the estimation of one scout, Wood is a changed pitcher from the kid who showed some early flashes with the Braves.
His radar gun readings have ticked up, and he has benefited from greater use of his changeup in Los Angeles.
"It's a completely different approach,'' the scout said.
"They tried to make him into a Tom Glavine, sink-and-cut type of guy in Atlanta.
Now he's airing it out more, and he's like, 'Here it is.'
He's funky.''
Wood went 10-0 with a 1.67 ERA in the first half and made his first All-Star team, but he has hit a few bumps since the break.
He made two trips to the disabled list this season with an inflammation of the sternoclavicular joint, which connects the clavicle to the sternum, and he has alternately struggled with his command and his radar gun readings.
"It's been a little bit of an evolution,'' Wood said.
"The first couple of starts after the break, I thought my stuff went down a little bit.
I was off a little bit mechanically.
Then you go through a phase where your stuff plays up, but it's your command.
I'm keeping the big picture in mind.
As long as my stuff is good, I feel like I'll be fine.''
If the Arizona Diamondbacks survive the wild-card game and play the Dodgers in the NL Division Series, they'll throw out some formidable right-handed bats against Los Angeles' predominantly lefty rotation.
But the matchup isn't quite as advantageous for Arizona as it might appear.
Despite the presence of Paul Goldschmidt, J.D.
Martinez and A.J.
Pollock in the lineup, the Diamondbacks rank only 10th in the National League with a .735 team OPS vs. lefty pitching.
And the platoon splits for Los Angeles' 3 and 4 starters are surprisingly good.
Hill has allowed a .195/.258/.344 slash line to righties compared with .260/.408/.448 against lefties, and Wood's splits are almost dead even.
Lefty hitters have a .607 OPS against him, compared with .625 from righties.
Ryu, who is also left-handed, has a pronounced case of reverse splits this season.
He has yielded a .945 OPS to lefty hitters and a .700 OPS to righties.
As the playoffs approach and Roberts finalizes his postseason plans, the principals are all dealing with the sense of anticipation in their own way.
Hill is immersed in his competitive cocoon, while Wood is taking notice of everything around him and feeling energized by the tinge of excitement in the air.
They're quietly gearing up for October, while Kershaw and Darvish generate the headlines.
But soon enough, everybody will be paying attention.
ST. LOUIS -- How did Chicago Cubs manager Joe Maddon do at least one thing San Francisco manager Bruce Bochy wasnt able to accomplish in three tries?
Something Kansas City Royals skipper Ned Yost and Boston Red Sox manager John Farrell also couldn't do?
All three won at least one World Series in recent years, but none returned to the playoffs the next season.
Maddons Cubs are on the verge of doing just that despite losing to the St. Louis Cardinals 8-7 on Tuesday night.
Their magic number to clinch the NL Central remains one.
If I thought I learned anything from the two previous times, its that its tiring, Maddon said before Tuesdays game.
It takes a part of you away from you.
Maddon won a ring as a bench coach with the Los Angeles Angels in 2002, then went to the World Series in 2008 with the Tampa Bay Rays.
His worldview has developed over time, and it isnt hard to understand: Rest trumps all, especially after winning a championship.
After all, the Cubs were playing baseball in November.
What I thought I learned was really be patient and really emphasize not pushing too hard too quickly, Maddon said.
The two other times Ive been involved in that, wow, you definitely burn out.
You run out of gas and have no chance.
Maddon navigated the first half of this season in fantastic fashion.
The moment he realized his team wasnt ready to push hard -- while injuries piled up on him -- he did the only thing possible: nothing.
He rotated his players in and out while using the good fortune of the division the Cubs were in to simply survive.
No team ran away and hid.
Maddon pointed toward the second half, in which he thought his players would be healthier and have their legs underneath them.
The hangover effect is real, if you look at what teams have done, Cubs president Theo Epstein said.
Thats nothing to be ashamed of, but I think there is always an opportunity to focus and elevate the caliber of play at a really important time.
Our guys have absolutely done that.
They elevated exactly when Maddon asked them to.
He didnt call a team meeting but addressed it individually, and the urgency became obvious.
The Cubs stormed out of the second half, winning their first six games, all on the road.
Once again, the tactics that Maddon has honed over the years worked.
Hes very positive, Epstein said.
Manages with the big picture in mind.
Look at what weve done in the second halves under him.
Hes done a great job.
Maddon added: Im pleased in the sense that what Ive always believed, I carried here and havent backed down regarding how to work with a baseball team, how to run a game, how to develop young players.
All that stuff, nothing has changed.
If you had seen me in previous years, nothing has changed.
Its nice to see your methods are validated.
In his opening news conference in 2014 at a bar near Wrigley Field, Maddon was asked if he would bring his unconventional ways to a big market.
He never hesitated: Of course he would.
He figured his style would work anywhere -- and it has.
Asked to assess himself, he wasnt about to go on a long diatribe.
Ill concede to one thing, Maddon said.
These last three years, overall, have validated my teaching principles in this game and how to go about it.
The evidence is in the results.
Nine of Maddon's past 10 seasons have been winning ones, compiled in two different markets.
When the Cubs clinch this year, itll be Maddon's seventh playoff appearance in 10 seasons.
Meetings arent the answer.
Creating the right environment is.
And Maddon did it again in 2017.
Im pleased how our guys have responded to the method, he said with a smile.
Alejandro Villanueva regrets the image of him standing alone during the national anthem because it appears Mike Tomlin and the Steelers aren't behind him in the tunnel, which he says is not true.
(0:32)

Pittsburgh Steelers offensive tackle Alejandro Villanueva met the media Monday to discuss what happened prior to Sunday's game in Chicago.
While some NFL players knelt, sat or locked arms during the anthem Sunday as a show of unity and form of protest to comments made by President Trump, the Steelers had planned to stay in the locker room instead of making any gesture on the sidelines.
But Villanueva was photographed by himself in a tunnel by the field with his right hand over his heart during the anthem at Soldier Field.
Villanueva, a former Army Ranger who toured several times in Afghanistan, explained what happened:

Alejandro Villanueva: This is humbling.
So I'll first address the last 48 hours of events and what's transpired.
This national anthem sort of ordeal has been out of control, and I think there's a lot to blame on myself, and I want to address it.
So Saturday night, as you guys all know, there was a team meeting that was going to determine what we were going to do as a team.
Coach [Mike] Tomlin gave us the guidance that we had to do it as one, so 100 percent, whatever it is that we had to do.
There was disagreement in what we were going to do.
And the only course of action was to go inside and remove ourself from the situation.
It was never to disrespect the national anthem.
Every single one of my teammates is extremely supportive and extremely patriotic in this locker room.
And I can not only say that for this locker room, but I can say that across the NFL, every single player that I've gone against.
After the meeting ... based on my unique circumstances and based on the fact that I've served in the Army and pretty much that my life is lived through the military, I asked Ben [Roethlisberger] if there was a way to define the inside or where it is we were going to stay and if I could watch the national anthem from the tunnel, and he agreed.
He said the captains will be out there right behind me, so this plan morphed to accommodate this tough, moral dilemma that I had in my hands to where the players can be behind me in the tunnel.
Ben Roethlisberger said at 56 make sure you're out there because the national anthem is going to start at 57.
I walked out at 12:56.
I asked one of the security guards when the national anthem was going to start, he said 20 seconds.
So I just walked out and I stopped as soon as I saw the flag, as soon as I had a vantage point.
That, to me, was enough.
There was a flag that was coming in from one of the previous celebrations.
When I turned around to sort of signal everyone to come so they wouldn't leave me alone that's when they were essentially unable to exit.
At that moment it was the decision of do you walk out of the national anthem and join your teammates?
I know that would have looked extremely bad.
Or as a team, do you start moving halfway through the national anthem?
So essentially what we can get out of this is we butchered our plan to sort of have a response for the national anthem and respect everyone's opinions.
I would say that my personal thoughts about the situation is that regardless of this plan, very few players knew that I was going to the tunnel because I only asked the team leadership.
And because of that I did not give them an opportunity to stand with me during the national anthem.
That is the very embarrassing part of my end in what transpired, because when everybody sees an image of me standing by myself, everybody thinks that the team, the Steelers, are not behind me, and that's absolutely wrong.
It's quite the opposite.
They all would have ... actually the entire team would have been out there with me, even the ones who wanted to take a knee would have been with me had they known these extreme circumstances that at Soldier Field, in the heat of the moment, when I've got soldiers, wounded veterans texting me that I have to be out there, I think everything would have been put aside, from every single one of my teammates, no doubt.
So because of that, I've made Coach Tomlin look bad, and that is my fault, and that is my fault only.
I made my teammates look bad, and that is my fault, and my fault only.
And I made the Steelers also look bad, and that is my fault, and my fault only.
So unwillingly, I made a mistake.
I talked to my teammates about the situation, hopefully they understand it.
If they don't, I still have to live with it, because the nature of this debate is causing a lot of very heated reaction from fans from players, and it's undeserving to all of the players and coaches from this organization.
So with that, I'll open up for any questions.
Alejandro Villanueva, a former Army Ranger, explained why he stood in the tunnel by himself, then he apologized to his teammates and the Steelers.
Joe Robbins/Getty Images

Al, would you be OK if ... Ben said everyone's going to go onto the field in Baltimore.
Would you be OK if your teammates knelt -- some of them knelt, some of them sat?
AV: Yeah, absolutely.
There have been players that have gone out of their way in the National Football League to thank me for my service.
The archrivals in the AFC North, Terrell Suggs, Michael Johnson, John Harbaugh, they've gone out of their way after a game to thank me for my service.
And not just because it's me, it's because I'm a soldier, I could be Soldier X, and they're out there thanking me.
So out of all these players in the NFL who are taking a knee, I don't think as a veteran I take offense.
In a big picture where there's customized different thing, nobody thinks when you're taking a knee you're offending the flag.
And they're saying it.
And I don't think that anybody that standing for the flag is not respecting the fact that there is a lot of unjustices and racial divide in our country.
So we're essentially talking about two completely different things.
But the problem is that it's interpreted as disrespectful to the flag, and so at the end of the day people have to live with those consequences.
Colin Kaepernick did, and there's a lot that can be said about his adventure of starting this process.
But I take no offense, I don't think veterans at the end of the day take offense, they actually signed up and fought so that somebody could take a knee and protest peacefully for whatever it is their hearts desire.
What did you express to your teammates Saturday night about any potential feelings you had about not seeing the field?
AV: There's a lot of levels, and there's a lot of reasons why people join the Army.
But at the end of the day ... it happens all the time, people die for the flag.
There's no way else to put it.
When somebody's about to go on a mission, when somebody's loading up the Chinook, when somebody's ready to go, there's nothing else that's going to justify other than the men to the left and right dying for that mission.
I wish I could stay home.
I wish we could all play "Call of Duty" and not have to go to war.
Some men, some women, sign up for this tough challenge, and they have to do it for the flag.
When I see a flag of a mission on the shoulder of a soldier that reminds me that that guy's with me.
It reminds me that I have to fight and lay my life down for him.
Whether it's in my unit, whether it's Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, it doesn't matter.
You're going to have a flag on your shoulder, I'm going to identify that, and we're fighting for each other.
So that's what the flag means to me, that's what the flag means to a lot of veterans.
Wounded warriors, they have no legs, they have shrapnel in their legs, they stand up and salute [during] the national anthem, it means a lot to them, it means a lot to me.
So I think my teammates respected this thoroughly.
It was just not communicated and the plan did not allow them the chance to get out and support me or maybe go back to the lab and sit five more hours before the game and figure out a plan.
I thought we had to go to bed, work something in the middle.
Unfortunately, I threw them under the bus unintentionally.
Al, today you had the best-selling jersey in the league.
You're a guy who doesn't enjoy -- you don't like this attention for this sort of stuff -- so how does it feel?
People are treating you because of those pictures today, they're treating you as some sort of hero who stood up to whatever.
They sort of take or interpret it for another thing.
What would you say to people who are trying to put you up there?
AV: It's completely wrong, and every single time I see that picture of me standing by myself I feel embarrassed to a degree, because like I said, unintentionally I left my teammates behind.
It wasn't me stepping forward.
I never planned to boycott the plan that the Steelers came up with.
I just thought that there would be some middle ground where I could stay in the tunnel, nobody would see me, and then afterward I just wouldn't talk to the media, like I do all the time.
I'll avoid you guys, I'll shower, bring my clothes in, never address you guys and two weeks later you guys will be talking about something else.
So I thought that was in my head what was going to happen: Steelers don't show up for national anthem, there's a debate nationally about what's right or wrong, everything goes down, we go back to talk about North Korea or the health-care bill and then we play the Baltimore Ravens and we forget about it.
So you guys know me, for the guys who come into the locker room all the time, I hate attention, I don't like it, I give you guys clichs so you guys will leave me alone.
But when it comes to this, it's a difficult situation, and I don't like the attention, and at the end of the day, the reason whether I want it or not, whether it was my intent or not, the reason I went out there by myself is the reason that is causing all this distress that is making the organization look bad, my coach look bad and my teammates look bad.
And for anybody who thinks Coach Tomlin is not as patriotic as you can get in America, or any one of my teammates or the owner, I take offense to that.
That's how I feel when I see myself standing alone for the national anthem.
Al, do you think the president should apologize for calling NFL players derogatory names or for drawing you guys into this in the first place?
AV: You know, you guys do this for a living.
You guys enjoy, and you guys comment on what the president says, I play football.
I don't have anything to say about the commander-in-chief and his decisions.
I've been following orders when I was in the military, and now I'm not responsible enough to make a comment about the president.
I'll stick to football.
I respect other players who want to talk about the president and his decision, but I have a lot on my plate.
I have to play to a standard.
I have to represent the Steelers organization, so I have nothing to comment about what the president says.
In following the story and having to see that picture, what did you learn about how the country views this issue that could be divisive?
AV: I think I'm going to give credit to Coach [Mike] Munchak, because he's the one that sort of deciphered it for all of us.
We're not talking about the same thing.
That's the thing people need to understand when it comes to the national anthem.
And I was one of the first ones who took offense when Colin Kaepernick took a knee.
I was one of the first ones who did an interview and, to a certain degree, I never criticized but I didn't agree with it.
People don't understand, but the people who are taking a knee are not saying anything negative about the military, not saying anything negative about the flag.
They're just trying to protest the fact that there are some injustices in America.
And for people to stand up for the national anthem, it doesn't mean they don't believe in these racial injustices, they're just trying to do the right thing.
So we as a team tried to figure it out, obviously butchered it, but I have learned that I don't know what it's like to be from Dade County, I don't know what it's like to be from Lakeland, I can't tell you that I know what my teammates have gone through.
So I'm not going to pretend that I have the righteous sort of voice to tell you that you should stand up for the national anthem.
It is protected by our constitution, and by our country, it's a freedom of speech.
People felt that based on the comments the president made that they had to go out and support Colin Kaepernick, and that's completely their right.
But it's not something we're trying to do with the Steelers, we're trying to be unified, and unfortunately I made the team look sort of all over the place and not unified.
It was a very unfortunate sort of 48 hours for me.
You think you'll be able to go back to anonymity you seek now that you're thrown out in front of this?
AV: I'm always going to stand up for the national anthem.
Coach Tomlin could have picked any other tackle to develop and turn into a starting left tackle.
I have to be real with myself and understand that the reason I'm playing here, the reason the Steelers got me here, is because I served in the military.
They saw something in that story that attracted them.
Because the Philadelphia Eagles cut me and I was the first player to be cut in Philadelphia, and the only person to call me was Coach Tomlin.
So I don't know.
To a certain degree I really don't care.
I can't go out there and pick you up if you're taking a knee or make you put your hand on your heart or sing the national anthem.
I really don't care.
I'm going to stand up for the national anthem.
I'll support all my teammates.
All my teammates have always supported me.
All my coaches have always supported me.
There are 32 teams out there.
I got cut from Philadelphia, the only one to call me was Mike Tomlin, and it was because he saw some character traits that might help me become a future starter.
And he did, so for me, I'm not going to control that.
If the whole NFL wants to kneel down, stand up, go to Army-Navy store, buy new uniforms, it doesn't matter.
I'm just trying to play football.
Will you share what your teammates may have said to you over the last 24 hours, and do you think in some strange way this has brought the team even closer together?
AV: The team meeting that we had on Saturday night brought the whole team together.
Absolutely, it really did.
We had great conversations between people that felt some type of way.
We completely understood that everything that was going on outside the building was not in our control and we were going to do something together.
Unfortunately I felt the pressure of having to find some middle ground so I could at least be in the national anthem.
My teammates wanted to do that, it got butchered because of this flag thing, maybe and hopefully if this is a really big deal, they'll find videos, of people as they were bringing out the flag and you can tell they could not leave the locker room.
But how would you feel if you were a player, there was a lot of players, I'm not going to name them, I would say 99, I would say almost all of them, I couldn't even tell you who was going to take a knee, but all my teammates wanted to stand up for the national anthem, they did not want this to be a distraction at all.
Their first course of action was to go out there and stand up.
But in order to remove any doubt of last second, we decided to stay away from the situation.
Not protest it, but stay away from the situation.
And how would you feel if you were somebody who really wants to go out there and stand up for the national anthem, and you didn't know there was a player who was going to stand out there in the tunnel and see from a vantage point.
I would be really pissed, because now he's getting all the heat and all the -- obviously I don't have social media, but they have social media, they're getting negative feedback because they didn't stand up for the national anthem, when in reality they would have done it.
They were fighting to stand up for the national anthem.
Everybody on the offensive line was very adamant about standing up for the national anthem.
Who cares?
You know.
We understand there's a lot of problems out there.
But I didn't give them the chance, based on the fact I told very few people, that there were going to be a selective few that were going to go out there.
We were just trying to come up with a middle-ground plan so that I would at least get to see the national anthem, some other players would, but if you have a different type of view, you could stay in the locker room.
Chris Sale gives up four home runs and the Blue Jays see long balls from Kendrys Morales, Teoscar Hernandez and Josh Donaldson.
(1:12)

BOSTON -- If Chris Sale is lucky, a second-place finish in the Cy Young Award voting will be the only consequence of what happened here Tuesday night.
A second-place finish in the American League East?
The Red Sox aren't in grave danger of that.
Not yet.
Not with five games remaining and a three-game lead over the New York Yankees.
The magic number is stuck on three and their fans might be bracing for DEFCON 4, but the Red Sox still have too much control over the situation to spark any genuine alarm.
Sale could have made things a bit easier, though.
If only he had continued his mastery of the Blue Jays, which included 22 scoreless innings over three starts this season, the Red Sox's road to a second consecutive division title would be a little less bumpy.
The champagne would be chilling in the clubhouse rather than packed firmly on ice.
Instead, Sale gave up five runs on eight hits and was pulled after five innings at Fenway Park.
He allowed four home runs, tying his career-high, at least one coming against each of his pitches (fastball, changeup, slider).
And the Red Sox lost 9-4, their second straight defeat after six consecutive wins.
"This one's on me," Sale said.
A rough night for Chris Sale against the Blue Jays could cost Boston's ace some hardware.
Maddie Meyer/Getty Images

It continued a month-long pattern in which the Red Sox ace has alternated good starts with bad ones.
Sale got roughed up for six runs by the Cleveland Indians on Aug. 24, then shut out the Blue Jays for seven innings on Aug. 29.
He gave up three homers in a loss to the Yankees on Sept. 3, then blanked the Tampa Bay Rays for six innings on Sept. 9.
He gave up four runs to the Rays on Sept. 15, then struck out 13 Baltimore Orioles in eight scoreless innings last Wednesday night.
Meanwhile, Indians ace Corey Kluber has a 1.39 ERA and 101 strikeouts in 84 innings over his past 11 starts.
For two months, Kluber has been lights-out, while Sale has occasionally gotten lit up, and the difference might be enough to put Kluber over the top in what figures to be a close Cy Young race.
Not that any of that seems to matter much to Sale.
"Just flat-out got to win games.
I'm not doing that," he said.
"I'm as frustrated as anybody on the planet right now about that."
Sale's frustration level rose throughout the game Tuesday night.
Needing 13 strikeouts to tie Pedro Martinez's single-season Red Sox record of 313, Sale fanned eight batters, including five of the first 10.
But he gave up solo homers to Josh Donaldson on a slider in the first inning and a fastball in the third.
The Jays extended their lead in the fifth inning when rookie Teoscar Hernandez smacked a leadoff homer on a changeup and veteran Kendrys Morales hit a slider for a two-run shot.
The problem: location, according to Sale.
Too many pitches found too much of the plate.
"Throw some bad pitches and get hit hard," Sale said, boiling down what happened.
"I throw a lot of strikes, so Ive just got to be more careful with where I throw them."
Sale is lined up to pitch the regular-season finale Sunday against the Houston Astros.
It's a start the Red Sox don't want him to make.
They can still clinch the division as early as Thursday, and as long as they lock it up before Sunday, Sale can get additional rest and avoid facing the team the Sox most likely will play in the American League Division Series next week.
Considering Sale has worked 214  innings, more than any pitcher in the majors, a few extra days of rest before the postseason would be a good idea.
Asked whether Sale will make his final start, manager John Farrell said, "I think its probably too early to answer that definitively.
We just have to see how these final five games play out."
"Thats not my call," Sale said.
"I answer the phone when it rings.
When they tell me to go out there, I go out there.
Whenever that is, it is, and Ill be ready for it.
"I'm still doing what I can out there.
Just sometimes it doesn't work out.
You can't have a good day at work every day.
Unfortunately, what I do is amplified because we're here and we're in the thick of it."
Back-to-back losses to the Blue Jays haven't drastically altered the Red Sox's situation.
But Sale could've helped them breathe a little bit easier.
Now, like the rest of us, he must sit and wait to see how the race for the AL East crown shakes out.
Hard to argue with this:

Congratulations to Corey Kluber, 2017 American League Cy Young winner!!
pic.twitter.com/YLpqWjFKHE  Ryan McCrystal (@TribeFanMcC) September 27, 2017

The Blue Jays blasted four home runs off Chris Sale in a 9-4 victory over the Red Sox, which pretty much clinches the Cy Young Award for Corey Kluber.
His lead over Sale in ERA is now 2.27 to 2.90, he holds a sizable edge in Baseball-Reference WAR (7.9 to 6.2), and he has one more start, on Saturday, to go for his 19th victory.
Kluber has the momentum with his dynamic final two months, while Sale has alternated good starts with bad ones down the stretch.
Anyway, let's talk about the American League East race, which is suddenly interesting again as the Yankees won to cut their deficit to three games with five remaining.
This sets up a potentially fascinating scenario for Sale and the Red Sox: When does he make his next start?
Chris Sale didn't offer a preference for pitching again before regular season ends.
Farrell didn't indicate a plan either  Evan Drellich (@EvanDrellich) September 27, 2017

Given a normal four days of rest, Sale would start Sunday, but the American League Division Series begins next Thursday, so if he starts Sunday, that would mean pitching the Division Series opener on three days' rest.
Obviously, the best-case scenario for the Red Sox is clinching before that final game on Sunday, in which case Sale probably doesn't start and takes an extended break before the playoffs.
The Red Sox are hoping Chris Sale has thrown his last regular-season pitch, but what happens if they don't clinch the AL East by Sunday?
Winslow Townson/USA Today Sports

If the Red Sox don't clinch before Sunday, it sets up a couple possibilities:

(1) They're up a game or tied and start Sale, hoping to clinch the division and avoid a tiebreaker game with the Yankees on Monday.
(2) They don't use Sale at all, saving him in case there is a tiebreaker game on Monday, the reasoning being that you want your ace going in that game in order to provide the best chance of avoiding the wild-card game.
I'd say the first scenario is the most likely.
If you win the division, having Sale start Game 2 of the Division Series isn't a worst-case scenario, since he could pitch Game 5 on regular rest, given the two off days in the playoff schedule.
You run the risk of not having him available for either a tiebreaker game or wild-card game, but you should be going all out to avoid either scenario.
That's probably the plan and why the Red Sox aligned the rotation to give Sale the possibility of pitching if needed on Sunday.
They're noncommittal right now because there is no reason to commit.
Scoreboard watching in the NL wild-card race.
So the Rockies won, the Brewers won, and the Cardinals won.
The Rockies remain 1.5 up on the Brewers and 2.5 up on the Cardinals.
Wednesday's starters are Jon Gray for the Rockies, Brandon Woodruff for the Brewers and Michael Wacha for the Cardinals (facing John Lackey on ESPN).
Highlights from the three games:

The Brewers had an early 6-2 lead over the Reds, holding on for a 7-6 win.
Craig Counsell pulled Zach Davies after four innings, which was the right call: He'd given up six hits and had no K's.
It's basically must-win for the Brewers, so he rode his top three relievers the rest of the way.
Josh Hader was dominant for 2 scoreless innings -- registering six K's -- before tiring and giving up a home run and two more baserunners.
He threw 49 pitches.
Counsell hasn't been using him on back-to-back days, but with that many pitches he may not be ready again until Friday.
Tyler Anderson threw a gem for the Rockies in a 6-0 win over the Marlins: seven scoreless innings, five strikeouts and 10 ground ball outs.
Remember this about the Rockies: Gray, Anderson and Chad Bettis were supposed to be their top three starters coming out of spring training, but they've made only 43 combined starts.
The rookies were great early on, but now manager Bud Black is counting on these three to get them to October.
Since coming off the DL, Anderson has delivered three scoreless outings in four starts.
Oh, and Nolan Arenado added a two-run homer, aiding his MVP case.
The Cardinals prevented the Cubs from clinching a playoff berth with an 8-7 win, although the Cubs made it interesting picking up four runs in the eighth inning and getting the go-ahead runs on base in the ninth before Juan Nicasio finally fanned Javier Baez to end it.
Bryce Harper returns.
Jerry Crasnick has the report from Philly as Harper played his first game since Aug. 12.
He went 0-for-2 with a walk, but had to run in the outfield and looked fine.
What I found intriguing, however, is that Dusty Baker hit Harper second.
If you've been reading this column all season, you know I've picked on Dusty for his lineup, particularly for not moving Anthony Rendon up to the two-hole.
Here's what I mean.
The Nationals' wOBA rankings by lineup position:

1st: .326 (19th)

2nd: .339 (21st)

3rd: .411 (3rd)

4th: .394 (3rd)

5th: .386 (1st)

6th: .360 (5th)

7th: .295 (25th)

8th: .323 (9th)

As it turns out, Baker isn't trying a new lineup.
He merely hit Harper second to get him an extra at-bat if needed.
In other words, it seems like the playoff lineup will probably be the one he used most of the season -- Harper third, Ryan Zimmerman cleanup, Daniel Murphy fifth and Rendon sixth.
Hitting Harper second would actually be inspired -- Mike Trout, Aaron Judge and Giancarlo Stanton, for example, are all batting second.
In the Nationals' case, hitting Howie Kendrick or Jayson Werth second means a weaker hitter gets an extra plate appearance instead of the guys coming after him.
That's not inspired thinking.
A few words about BABIP.
I tweeted a joke out on Monday that Aaron Judge is the first member of the 50-120-100-120-200 club -- home runs, runs, RBIs, walks and strikeouts.
As one reader responded, we now know Adam Dunn was merely the poor man's Judge.
Reader Craig Kaufman suggested that Judge, with all those strikeouts, will be a career .250 hitter and has relied on an unsustainable BABIP.
I think I'd disagree with that assessment.
Judge has a .358 average on balls in play, which ranks seventh among qualified hitters as I write this midway through Tuesday's action.
As hard as Judge hits the ball, I don't find that number unsustainable.
Joey Votto owns a career .354 BABIP.
Mike Trout is at .356.
Paul Goldschmidt is at .355.
Corey Seager is at .357.
Some other guys with more limited playing time are over .350, and guys with longer careers such as Miguel Cabrera and Joe Mauer are over .340.
So in that context, Judge's .358 BABIP doesn't feel lucky.
Now, BABIP ignores home runs.
As Joe Sheehan tweeted back to me, "There is no basis for excluding home runs in analyzing hitters' skill on contact."
Judge, of course, has 50 home runs.
Here are the leaders in batting average on contact:

Judge: .462

Avisail Garcia: .420

Tommy Pham: .420

Domingo Santana: .416

Charlie Blackmon: .415

Goldschmidt: .413

Marcell Ozuna: .408

Jose Altuve: .407

Tim Beckham: .407

Justin Upton: .405

Judge has a decisive lead there.
Is .462 extreme?
Here are the yearly leaders since 2010:

2016: Freddie Freeman, .426

2015: Harper, .441

2014: Stanton, .420

2013: Chris Davis, .434

2012: Trout, .433

2011: Matt Kemp, .440

2010: Josh Hamilton, .440

This is also known as the Strong Dudes Who Hit The Ball Really Hard Club.
Judge still leads, and he's arguably the biggest and strongest of them all, although I guess we need to see him and Stanton in a cage match to know for sure.
Anyway, the point is: We've never seen a guy like Judge.
I don't necessarily see signs of "luck" in his results.
We know he can hit .280 even while striking out 200 times, which seems crazy, except it's happening.
The scary thing is what would happen if Judge can find a way to eliminate 30 strikeouts.
Give him 12 extra hits and he's hitting .306.
Look, maybe next season six of his home runs land on the warning track and six bleeders are caught.
Maybe the baseball is suddenly less lively.
Turn a dozen hits into outs and he's still a .260 hitter.
To turn him into a .250 hitter, you'd need to take away 17 hits.
I don't see that happening, unless pitchers find some new way to exploit his approach that they didn't discover this year.
Not everybody can be compared to normal predictive results, so let's appreciate and enjoy what Judge has accomplished.
Catch of the day.
Just off the DL, Aaron Hicks made one of the better catches of the season, robbing Wilson Ramos of a first-inning grand slam:

Impressive.
But was it even the best catch of the day?
Byron Buxton did this:

You'd better believe that's a  catch for @OfficialBuck103!
@Twins CF covers 56 ft in 3.6 seconds to convert a 24% catch probability.
pic.twitter.com/QsvbqdyLcu  #Statcast (@statcast) September 27, 2017

Buxton is second to Mookie Betts among outfielders in defensive runs saved at plus-24 runs (entering Tuesday).
But Hicks has been just as good on a per-inning basis, with plus-14 runs in just over half the number of innings.
The Twins beat the Indians on Brian Dozier's three-run homer in the eighth inning off Bryan Shaw.
Their magic number is down to one.
Good job, Twins!
Sylvia Fowles grabs 17 rebounds as the Lynx down the Sparks 70-68 and send the WNBA Finals to 1-1.
(1:22)

MINNEAPOLIS -- Sylvia Fowles sensed it was going to happen.
So did Renee Montgomery and Rebekkah Brunson.
They all felt like Minnesota's Lindsay Whalen was ready to have a big performance in Game 2 of the WNBA Finals.
"I was telling her all day today: 'The way they are guarding you, you can score,'" Montgomery said after the Lynx held off the Sparks 70-68 and evened the best-of-five series at 1-1 on Tuesday.
"I told her, 'You're the pull-up queen, that's your wheelhouse.'
I was in her corner, hyping her up the whole time."
Whalen, of course, was pretty hyped all on her own.
Nobody on the Lynx is a fiercer competitor than she is, and the point guard was stewing after Minnesota's 85-84 loss in Sunday's opener.
"She's a little bulldog.
When she's rowdy, I love it," Fowles said.
"I feed off that energy.
There's no fear with Lindsay.
She's going all out, and she expects everybody else to do that too.
"I knew she had it in her [Monday] when we were in watching film.
We all got frustrated because coach was unhappy, and she was nagging, nagging, nagging.
And we were like, 'OK, we get it.'
So I think tonight we were determined to come out on the right foot, and for Lindsay, she was going to be a factor in this game."
Whalen scored six of the Lynx's first seven points, and she finished with a team-high 14.
It was a balanced attack from Minnesota, with all five starters scoring in double figures: Maya Moore and Fowles had 13 points, Brunson 12 and Seimone Augustus 11.
All five Lynx starters scored in double figures on Tuesday, with Lindsay Whalen's 14 points leading the way.
She shot 6-of-12 from the field, scoring six of Minnesota's first seven points.
David Sherman/NBAE via Getty Images

Fowles, who also had a WNBA Finals-record 17 rebounds, will acknowledge that coach Cheryl Reeve had a right to nag her players heading into Game 2, after the Lynx's hideous start in Sunday's loss.
They were behind by as much as 26 points in the first quarter.
On Tuesday, though, the tables turned, and the Sparks struggled in the opening period, trailing 28-10.
The Lynx looked like a different team than the one that seemed discombobulated for most of the first period on Sunday.
"Coach just wanted me to be aggressive," Whalen said.
"We talked yesterday, last night, at shootaround this morning.
She said that I would set the tone for the game.
I tried to pick my spots.
"There were a couple of jumpers and plays in the second half I wish I could have back, but overall, the start was good for us."
The Lynx were comfortably ahead 45-26 at halftime.
But they needed all of that 19-point lead.
Just as Minnesota rallied Sunday and forced the game to go down to the final possession, Los Angeles did the same thing on Tuesday.
"I don't think we had a collective sense of urgency starting the game," the Sparks' Alana Beard said.
"I think it was a different type of hunger from them, but it wasn't unexpected by us.
We just didn't do what we needed to do."
Editor's Picks Brunson bounces back to help Lynx win Game 2 In the first half, Rebekkah Brunson helped hold Candace Parker scoreless.
In the final seconds of the game, Brunson saved Minnesota's 70-68 victory, forcing the Sparks to turn the ball over and sealing the Game 2 victory.
Lynx hold off Sparks to even WNBA Finals Just like in the opening game of the WNBA Finals, one team fell behind big in Tuesday's Game 2 only to almost rally for a win.
This time, the Lynx held on for the win after forcing two turnovers in the game's final seconds.
Parker, Fowles on opposite sides again in the WNBA Finals Candace Parker and Sylvia Fowles were the top two picks in the 2008 draft and have flourished into two of the greatest players in WNBA history.
And after playing against each other their whole lives, they lead their teams into Game 2 of the WNBA Finals.
2 Related

The Sparks got just three points combined from post players Candace Parker and Nneka Ogwumike in the first half on Tuesday.
But the Sparks' offense started to work better in the third quarter.
And by the time the game was over, Parker had 17 points (all in the second half) and Ogwumike 11.
"We weren't able to even get the ball where we wanted, let alone the shots we wanted," Ogwumike said of the first half.
"We had to assert ourselves, and that didn't start happening until late."
The Lynx were up 60-50 going into the fourth quarter, and the final 10 minutes were tense.
A long 2-pointer from Parker cut the Lynx lead to three, 69-66, with 1:21 left.
Moore extended the edge to 70-66 with a free throw, but Parker hit two from the stripe to make it 70-68.
Moore missed a jump shot, and then the game turned into a battle of turnovers.
First, there was a five-second call on the Sparks while trying to inbound the ball.
Beard, who was attempting to make the pass, said, "They guarded it well, and we just didn't get it in."
But then the Lynx gave it right back, when Augustus lost the ball out of bounds.
The Sparks had possession with 13 seconds left.
They had won Sunday on Chelsea Gray's late jumper, but Brunson kept that from happening again, knocking the ball away from Gray with 3.9 seconds to play.
Moore picked it up and passed to Whalen, who dribbled out the clock.
It seemed appropriate that the ball was in Whalen's hands at the end.
She faced a big challenge this season, suffering a broken left (nonshooting) hand on Aug. 2 and missing the rest of the regular season.
Whalen, 35, had to hope she could heal in time for the playoffs.
She returned during Minnesota's semifinal series against the Washington Mystics.
WNBA Finals schedule The best-of-five WNBA Finals continue Friday.
All tipoffs ET.
Sept. 24: Sparks 85, at Lynx 84 Sept. 26: At Lynx 70, Sparks 68 Sept. 29: Lynx at Sparks, 9 p.m. (ESPN2) Oct. 1: Lynx at Sparks, 8:30 p.m. (ESPN) Oct 4*: Sparks at Lynx, 8 p.m. (ESPN) * If necessary  Complete schedule and results

On Sunday, Whalen had six assists but just five points and was clearly disappointed.
"Whalen took a lot personally from Game 1," Reeve said.
"She realized she wasn't aggressive enough and came out and really established herself [Tuesday].
It created openings for us.
If you're around her, you would have guessed she was going to come out that way to help lead this team."
Montgomery, who moved into the starting lineup when Whalen was injured and now is back in her role as sixth woman, got seven points off the bench on Tuesday.
She did her part to help Minnesota start strong, and she said that she and the rest of the Lynx followed Whalen's lead.
"There are just certain things you know Lindsay Whalen can do," Montgomery said.
"And boy, when she starts doing them, I'm like, 'Uh-oh, she's going to cause trouble.'"
The kind of trouble the Lynx love, of course, and that helped them head to Los Angeles all tied up with the Sparks.
"It's just two great teams battling it out," Whalen said.
"I think everybody is trying to counter each other and just play their hardest.
You never know which play is going to make the difference, so it was just a lot heart and hustle.
"I'm trying to enjoy this.
It was kind of rough after [Sunday's game], and the last 48 hours was tough.
But I think a lot of determination from the whole team went into today, and I was happy to come out and get a couple of shots to go.
Sometimes, that's what us point guards try to do, give that extra punch.
Coach put me in the right mindset, and I kind of went from there."
The Bottom 10 inspirational thought of the week:

"They -- they're what we thought they were.
We played them in preseason.
I mean, who the hell takes the third game of the preseason like it's bulls---?
Bulls---!
We played them in the third game.
Everybody played three quarters.
The Bears are who we thought they were!
That's why we took the damn field!
Now [slaps microphone], if you want to crown them, then crown their ass!
But -- they are who we thought they were, and we let them off the hook!"
-- Dennis Green, former Arizona Cardinals head coach

When I was in high school, I was skinny.
Like, pre-super-serum Pvt.
Steve Rogers "somebody give that kid a sandwich" skinny.
As an athlete, I was fast, but that was kind of it.
I had hands of stone.
I had shins of glass.
On the practice field, I could hold my own.
But in the weight room ... well, the weight room, it was not my friend.
Leg day, I was good to go.
But whenever I hit the bench press, I was suddenly surrounded by impromptu spotters and jeerers, worried for my well-being.
However, this was the 1980s and a store called GNC was starting to pop up in shopping malls.
I went and bought some powdered stuff that the sales guy in the smedium shirt said would pump me up like him.
I ordered some sort of weird vitamins from a men's magazine.
I did a bunch of even weirder exercises diagrammed in a foldout poster located in that same magazine, between a story about car stereo systems and a profile of Heather Locklear.
I did all of that for months.
So, when I returned to the weight room and laid down on that bench, I was sure my team would be blown away by the newly enhanced me, like secret agents fawning over the newly ripped Steve Rogers.
But the weight of reality soon came crashing down on me.
I couldn't breathe from it all.
Then I realized it wasn't reality.
It was the bar, crushing my esophagus.
After my teammates saved my life, they left me alone to sit and grapple with the words that, years later, Dennis Green would scream into a microphone.
Dangit, after all that work and hope, I was still exactly who I thought I was.
I hadn't thought about that moment in years.
Then, via a television camera in Nashville, Tennessee, I recognized the look that I had on my face that day so many years ago in the face of another.
When you skip your 4 hour Saturday lab to watch this Vandy game pic.twitter.com/OLXO4epXTw  Ben Elia (@TheBenElia) September 23, 2017

With apologies to Dr. Abraham Erskine and Steve Harvey, here's this week's Bottom 10.
Well, Bottom 10 GameDay didn't happen.
When I arrived on campus Saturday night with my GoPro and a folding chair, I was immediately escorted off campus by two very large men in two very green mining costumes.
Apparently, I deeply offended 49ers fans when I suggested that one week ago North Carolina A&T had more people in the Charlotte stands than Charlotte did.
I admit, I was wrong.
This week, as they hosted the 2017 Pillow Fight of the Year: Episode I against Georgia State Not Southern, a debate over which school had the most people in the seats didn't matter.
Because no one really had anyone in the seats.
It was a valiant effort in Knoxville.
So valiant it will very well end up being one of the primary planks of the argument that forces Tennessee's coach to walk, well, the plank.
But ... the Minutemen are still the nation's only 0-5 team.
It was a valiant effort at home against Oklahoma.
So valiant it will very well end up being one of the planks of the argument that forces Baylor fans to turn back from walking, well, the plank.
But ... the Bears are still the Big 12's only 0-4 team.
It was a valiant effort at Buffalo.
So valiant ... actually, no, sorry.
The Fightin' Kiffins lost to a backup QB at Buffalo.
Not the Bills, the Bulls.
This premise just officially expired.
The SEC Least

How do I love an entire division in the Coveted Fifth Spot?
Let me count the ways.
Vandy lost to Bama by 59 points; Mizzou lost to Auburn by 37; Kentucky fell to Florida for the 31st time in a row by blowing a 13-point, fourth-quarter lead.
Then Florida had nine players tagged in a fraud case.
And the team that had just lost to Kentucky last week, South Carolina, had to kick a late field goal to win 17-16 over Louisiana Tech, a team that came in the day ranked 94th in the nation in points allowed.
Am I missing anyone?
Oh yeah, Tennessee message boards have been filled with eleventy-billion #FireButch complaints after being in this spot solo last week and then narrowly escaping UMass.
So, how many ways?
All those other numbers added to eleventy-billion.
After dropping to 0-3, the Minors fired their offensive coordinator after falling to 126th in the nation in total yards.
In their first game under the new play-calling regime, they fell to 128th.
Last week I stated that the Falcons' arrival into our rankings was the first appearance by a MAC team this season but was quickly corrected by multiple readers who pointed out that they were, indeed, the second.
It's shocking that we would have any errors, seeing as how our Bottom 10 Stats & Info department just got that new Commodore 64.
So, who was the first MAC team to make it?
That would be the Flashes, who return to our rankings after losing at Louisville 42-3 -- or 42-10 if you count the squirrel who ran out onto the field and crossed the goal line.
And we are.
Of the MAC East's six teams, three have losing records and one sits at .500.
This weekend they all throw down in a MACtion Pillow Fight Bunkhouse Stampede as 0-4 Boiling Green hosts 1-3 Akron and 1-3 State of Kent hosts the 2-2 Buffalo Bulls Not Bills.
Remember that scene in "The Avengers" when Thor, Captain America and Iron Man clash in the forest and level everything around them?
This will totally not be like that.
Prior to the Wolf Pack's visit to Washington State, much was written about former Kentucky head coach and "Air Raid" offensive guru Hal Mumme, longtime mentor to Wazzu head coach Mike Leach and father of Nevada offensive coordinator Matt Mumme.
The Cougars won 45-7.
In related news, this winter Leach and the Mummes will appear together on a special episode of "Dr. Phil" titled, Why does Dad love you more than me?
After losing to the Bottom 10's previously top/bottom-ranked team, the EC-Yew Pirates, multiple unconfirmed reports tell me that UConn head coach Randy Edsall attempted to board a plane bound for Maryland.
When told he needed to rejoin the Huskies on the bus back to Storrs, he replied, "No, no, it's cool.
This totally works.
I did it before.
Google it."
Waiting list: EC-Yew (1-3), Living on Tulsa Time (1-3), UNC Tear Heels (1-3), Kansas Nayhawks (1-3), South Alabama (1-3), In A Rut-gers (1-3), Minute Rice (1-3), Akron (1-3), San No-se State (1-4), OH-regon State (1-3), and again, basically the entire Fun Belt (12 teams, 1 with a winning record)
The Penn State running back has found himself in the Heisman conversation thanks to his electric play.
(0:57)

Perhaps the least controversial statement in college football, four weeks into this season, escaped the lips of Penn State Nittany Lions offensive tackle Ryan Bates in the wake of Saquon Barkley's monster effort Saturday night as the fourth-ranked Nittany Lions beat Iowa 21-19.
"He can do everything," Bates said.
Barkley, the junior running back, a 5-foot-11, 230-pound mix of power, speed and quickness who already owns the freshman and sophomore rushing records at PSU, is good enough now to be known nationally simply by his first name.
"He can make people miss.
He can run people over.
He jumps over people," Bates said.
"He can catch the ball.
He can run the ball.
He can block."
Of course, he can.
What's stunning, though, as Barkley ascends to the top of ESPN's Heisman Trophy watch list in the waning days of September, is that he found a way last week to display all of his talents at once.
Well, not on one play.
That would be too much to expect for even Barkley.
But during the course of Penn State's Big Ten opener in Iowa City, Barkley showcased his complete arsenal, registering likely his best performance at PSU as he broke Curt Warner's 36-year-old school record for all-purpose yards with 358 on 40 offensive touches and three kickoff returns.
"I cannot imagine that there's a better player in all of college football," Penn State coach James Franklin said.
"I've been doing this for 23 years.
The guy is special."
Penn State RB Saquon Barkley has 518 yards rushing and is averaging a stunning 7.8 yards per carry through four games this season.
He also has 23 receptions for 335 yards.
He has six total TDs this season.
Jeffrey Becker-USA TODAY Sports

Barkley's teammates and coaches watched him rush for a league-leading 1,496 yards and score 22 touchdowns last year.
They saw him gain 1,076 yards as a true freshman in 2015.
He still left them in awe Saturday.
"There was a play where he was surrounded by four guys on the sideline," Penn State quarterback Trace McSorley said.
"He almost didn't even make a move and squirted out of it.
I think, at that point, I kind of caught myself going, 'Oh, my God, what was that?'
"There are times where you see it, react to it and real quick, you've gotta move on to the next play."
McSorley refers to a third-quarter Barkley run of 44 yards immediately after Penn State's Grant Haley recovered a fumble by Iowa running back Akrum Wadley.
Barkley ran left toward the PSU sideline, through multiple attempts to bring him down, then came to a stop and danced past linebacker Josey Jewell, who typically tackles everything in sight.
"We work on that," Barkley said.
"We kinda call it a dead leg."
Others work on it, too.
That doesn't make them any more similar to Barkley, who took a third-down screen pass from McSorley early in the fourth quarter, hurdled cornerback Josh Jackson and absorbed a hit from safety Amani Hooker while still in the air before landing on his feet to gain 10 yards.
"Most of that's just instinct," Barkley said.
"That was third-and-6.
Gotta make a play.
Gotta find a way.
It was a critical moment in the game.
We needed a first down.
We needed to start establishing drives.
Your body just takes over.
You let go."
Speaking of critical moments, how about the reception that Barkley took 4 yards behind the line of scrimmage, at Iowa's 28-yard line with 24 seconds left in the game and Penn State trailing by four points, and raced to the 10?
The Nittany Lions' win probability percentage, according to ESPN, jumped 28.8 points to 51 percent on that play alone.
"Every time he touched the football," Franklin said, "it was special."
Four plays later, on fourth-and-goal from the 7, Barkley found himself as the lone man between McSorley and a blitzing Jewell.
Barkley made his block as the QB delivered the winning throw to Juwan Johnson in the end zone.
ESPN

Barkley said he was most proud of the Nittany Lions' two-minute drive at the end.
"People who appreciate football," he said, "that was a clinic."
Maybe so, but he put on a clinic all night -- and against a defense as solid as Penn State will face this year ahead of an Oct. 21 showdown with Michigan at Beaver Stadium.
Barkley finished with 211 rushing yards on 28 carries and a career-best 12 catches for 94 yards.
"I can't take credit for the performance I had," Barkley said.
"It's an 11-man sport.
It's a team sport.
Especially as a running back, you can't do it by yourself."
His humility could get annoying if Barkley wasn't so genuine.
He could take more credit.
And whatever Barkley gets, he deserves more.
Meanwhile, the Nittany Lions know better than to grow accustomed to his creativity and array of skills.
They know what the nation has begun to recognize -- don't look away from Saquon for even a moment.
"He's going to end up bringing up some other new way [to make a play] that no one's ever seen before," McSorley said.
"It's going to make us all go, 'Whoa.'
So you've just kind of gotta let him do what he does."
Yes, most everyone who saw him up close at Iowa, it seems, understood they were in the presence of something rare.
Something that may end with Barkley standing on a New York stage in December.
WEEK 4 AT IOWA RUSHING YDS TD YPC 211 1 7.5 RECEIVING REC YDS YPR TD 12 94 7.8 0

2017 SEASON RUSHING YDS TD YPC 518 4 7.8 RECEIVING REC YDS YPR TD 23 335 14.6 2

Barkley takes over the top spot in the Heisman Watch after running through -- and hurdling over -- a tough Iowa team.
He had his best game of the season in terms of rushing yardage and leads the nation in receiving yards by a running back.
This column was inevitable.
We could have penciled it in months ago.
It's my third annual look at whether the Seattle Seahawks can overcome the various early-season offensive maladies that inevitably threaten to knock them from the contending ranks.
The 2015 version of this column explained why a badly listing offense would right itself (it did).
Last year's incarnation suggested there were issues that would work against a dramatic reversal (also true).
The tradition continues.
One critical factor differentiates this Seattle team from the 2016 edition that stumbled out of the starting gates.
There are other similarities and differences compared to past teams that will influence Seattle's trajectory following a 1-2 start to this season.
We examine them here.
What's the same?
An unusually young offensive line: Seattle has had the NFL's youngest starting line by a wide margin this season.
This is the seventh consecutive season in which the team's starting five has ranked among the seven youngest through September.
Young doesn't have to mean bad -- Dallas and Tennessee rank among the five youngest lines now -- but it does when a line somewhat lacking in pedigree is patched together at the last minute.
The plan was for veterans Luke Joeckel and T.J. Lang to stabilize a young line featuring talented (but raw) prospect George Fant at left tackle.
Seattle dined with Joeckel and Lang together during free agency and thought it would land both, only to have Lang sign with Detroit instead.
Seattle then lost Fant to a season-ending knee injury during the preseason.
Seattle will bank on this young group improving as it plays together, same as in past seasons.
The Seahawks have another young offensive line in place this season.
The results haven't been spectacular thus far.
AP Photo/Mark Zaleski

Angst over Jimmy Graham: When tight end Jimmy Graham was with New Orleans, the Saints made it a point to use formations that featured him.
They targeted him 7.8 times per game in his final 32 games with the team.
Seattle has targeted Graham 6.0 times per game in his first 32 games with the team, but it might as well have been 0.6 times per game based on how much attention his role commands when the offense struggles.
Graham did have 11 targets against Tennessee on Sunday, tying his Seahawks high, but that was with quarterback Russell Wilson putting up a career-high 49 attempts.
Uncertainty at RB: Seattle was bouncing between Thomas Rawls and Christine Michael at running back early last season.
Marshawn Lynch was in and out of the lineup with injuries the season before, until Rawls hit his stride.
Eddie Lacy was supposed to be the answer in 2017, but it's clear now that rookie seventh-round choice Chris Carson -- labeled "the real deal" by a personnel director who scouted him in the preseason -- is the player Seattle has targeted as its next long-term starter.
The offensive staff: Coordinator Darrell Bevell, line coach Tom Cable and quarterbacks coach Carl Smith have all been with Seattle since 2011, the year before Wilson arrived.
Seattle ranks among the NFL leaders since then on a per-game basis in rushing yards (first), fewest turnovers (third), offensive points (ninth) and explosive plays (11th), defined as 12-plus-yard rushes and 16-plus-yard passes.
Those are impressive numbers, but they tell half the story.
Since 2011, Seattle is 28th in offensive points per game in the first halves of seasons and fourth -- behind only the Patriots, Saints and Packers -- in the second halves of seasons.
The Seahawks' ranking for explosive plays jumps from 25th in Games 1-8 to third, behind the Eagles and Saints, in Games 9-16.
That clear history for improvement does not seem to be random.
It looks like Seattle's offense starts over annually with new parts, especially along the line, and then finds its way.
That doesn't mean another turnaround is assured.
The improvements were much more modest last season -- for reasons related to the quarterback.
What's different?
Russell Wilson is healthy: Wilson hobbled through most of last season after suffering an ankle injury in the opener.
ESPN charting shows that Wilson has been pressured, sacked or put under duress on 36 percent of pass plays since he entered the league, the highest rate for any quarterback with 100 pass attempts or more in those five-plus seasons.
Wilson's pressure rate is near 35 percent so far this season -- but he is healthy.
That is critical for an offense that needs the threat of his running to be at its best and needs his elusiveness to compensate for a leaky line.
A healthy, productive Doug Baldwin is critical to the Seahawks' success.
Wesley Hitt/Getty Images

Doug Baldwin is not: Baldwin is the most consistently excellent performer on the Seahawks' offense.
He is the one receiver Wilson can trust now that Jermaine Kearse is wearing a Jets uniform.
He is also a phenomenal all-around player whose contributions as a blocker and super-energized force go beyond catching the ball.
There's some young talent at the position but not proven young talent.
That's why it was significant when a groin injury forced Baldwin to finish the Tennessee game on the sideline.
Will the injury linger?
Seattle draws Indy at home in Week 4 and the Rams on the road in Week 5 before reaching its bye.
Getting Baldwin healthy is key.
An oddly tough schedule: Seattle is the only team in the league that has played two road games against teams that finished 2016 with winning records.
The Seahawks led both of those road games in the third quarter before falling 17-9 at Green Bay and 33-27 at Tennessee.
This would probably be a 2-1 team finding its way amid much less angst if the schedule hadn't served up two of its tougher road games right away.
Some age on defense: Seattle still has top-shelf talent on defense.
A couple of shaky second halves against Green Bay and Tennessee should not be reason for panic.
Age is creeping in, however, and that could, at least in theory, make this defense more reliant on a baseline level of assistance from its offense.
Seattle's defensive starters went into Week 3 as the second oldest behind Arizona's in average age (the ranking was only 15th by median age, however).
Was the second-half meltdown in the heat at Tennessee an aberration?
The Seahawks gave up 24 second-half points, the most a Seahawks team has allowed in 129 total games under Carroll.
The advanced stats showed Seattle at minus-13.7 in defensive expected points added for that second half, the worst for Seattle in a second half since a 2010 game against Tampa Bay that saw Josh Freeman throw three scoring passes after halftime (Richard Sherman was at Stanford then).
Outlook

Tensions have been riding high following a 1-2 start for the Seahawks, but they should be fine.
The question is whether "fine" will be good enough to land them home-field advantage in the NFC.
Jim Brown-USA TODAY Sports

Seattle should be fine, but fine might not be good enough to earn the Seahawks what they need most to become a Super Bowl team again: home-field advantage through the NFC playoffs.
Losing at Green Bay surrendered one possible tiebreaker.
Seattle can win back another potential tiebreaker with a Week 11 home victory over Atlanta.
A game at Dallas in Week 16 could also help shape the NFC race.
The Seahawks nearly pulled off a comeback Sunday at Tennessee, but with the loss, Seattle is 3-7-1 on the road since the start of last season, including the playoffs.
The Seahawks were 8-3 in their 11 road games before that, with a 27-13 average final score for those games, even counting the defeats.
They didn't just win on the road.
They dominated.
Now, they mostly lose away from home.
That drop-off reveals a championship team becoming a very good team that tends to play its best later in the season.
Getting back to the Super Bowl will most likely require a healthy Wilson and an emerging young back in Carson elevating an offense with more question marks around it -- and specifically, up front -- than the Seahawks anticipated having.
PHILADELPHIA -- Be careful what you say when you're miked up.
That's the lesson Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Carson Wentz learned this week.
He was wired for sound during Sunday's game against the New York Giants.
Prior to kicker Jake Elliott's 61-yard field goal attempt at the end of regulation, Wentz told teammate Kamu Grugier-Hill that he would give Elliott his game check if the rookie kicker somehow made it.
Elliott came through with the longest field goal in Eagles history to lift them to a 27-24 win.
Per ESPN's Darren Rovell, Wentz takes home $31,765 a week.
That's pretty good bread for a rookie who just two weeks ago was stuck on the Cincinnati Bengals practice squad.
Meanwhile, Wentz added to the intrigue Wednesday morning with the following tweet:
Matthew Berry picks out key players to dump and keep on your fantasy team after Week 3.
(4:40)

ABOUT COOKIES

We use cookies to offer an improved online experience.
By clicking "OK" without changing your settings you are giving your consent to receive cookies.
Field Yates and Mike Clay discuss Tarik Cohen's high number of carries and the Bears' running the ball more as just a couple reasons why you need to pick up the running back for your fantasy roster.
(1:05)

When the NFL released its schedule this offseason, it arrived with the usual buzz that accompanies it: notable games, reunions of players and coaches, stretches of difficult or easy games for a particular team.
The whole nine yards.
Perhaps a bit overlooked is that the NFL has reduced the window in which bye weeks occur.
In 2016, the NFL bye weeks began in Week 4 and the final two teams had their open Sunday in Week 13.
This year?
Week 5 kicks off the bye weeks and they conclude in Week 11.
What's the fantasy hook, you ask?
Well, for those who might be looking for a Matt Ryan or Drew Brees fill-in -- they're both off in Week 5 -- you might be well-served to get ahead of the curve this week rather than risk someone else snagging your intended target in Week 5.
From bye week fill-ins to injury replacements to surprise performers, we've got you covered with the Week 4 free-agent finds.
Players available in less than 50 percent of leagues do not qualify for this column.
Tarik Cohen, RB, Chicago Bears (rostered in 44.2 percent of ESPN leagues)

I don't have a good explanation for why Cohen remains eligible for this list, as he should have crossed the 50 percent threshold a while back.
But what I do know is that his role in the Bears' offense isn't fading anytime soon.
He chalked up a career-best 12 carries in Week 3 and continued to be a factor in the passing game with four catches.
He has the skills and role to be a weekly fixture in the top 25 of PPR scoring for running backs.
Tyrod Taylor, QB, Buffalo Bills (10.2 percent)

Taylor is the most underrated player in fantasy football.
He is, for some reason, overlooked again this season, though he continues to produce.
He just posted a 17.8-point performance against the scariest defense on his schedule (Denver) and has multiple avenues to fantasy success.
He has eight carries in each of the first three games this season, with a rushing role that won't go away.
He won't ever be a high-volume passer, but he's careful with the football (just 13 picks since the start of 2015), and he finds a way.
If you have Cam Newton, consider reading the past few sentences again.
Chris Carson, RB, Seattle Seahawks (42.8 percent)

For the second straight week, Carson is a priority waiver add.
He had 11 rushes in Week 3 but further cemented his spot as the top back in Seattle.
He chipped in with a receiving touchdown.
He's the back to have in Seattle and there's no need to overthink any more of the analysis -- he should be picked up in all leagues.
Devin Funchess, WR, Carolina Panthers (11.3 percent)

The Panthers lost Kelvin Benjamin early in their defeat to the New Orleans Saints, their second top option lost in as many weeks.
That means Funchess will be counted on to play an expanded role.
He caught four of his 10 targets in Week 3.
He's a terrific athlete who is still working to build a consistent rapport with Newton.
For now, opportunity is knocking and he's a smart add in any league 12 teams or larger.
Wendell Smallwood, RB, Philadelphia Eagles (1.6 percent)

Following an injury to Darren Sproles, a devastating torn ACL and broken arm on the same play, the Eagles are without their best passing-game option out of the backfield.
Smallwood led all Eagles back in snaps played in Week 3 (57 percent) and is their best pass-catcher with Sproles out for the year and Donnel Pumphrey on injured reserve.
He's likely to have a defined role going forward.
In 12-team or larger PPR leagues, Smallwood is on the radar.
Javorius Allen, RB, Baltimore Ravens (48.9 percent)

While the production may have been a bit disappointing, the workload was not.
He had 13 total touches for the Ravens and five catches -- the key to his value in points-per-reception scoring -- and has the steadiest role of any Baltimore back.
Terrance West had just six carries to Allen's eight.
Baltimore got shellacked on Sunday, but Allen still has value with upside of an RB2 in PPR scoring until Danny Woodhead returns.
Alvin Kamara, RB, New Orleans Saints (11.1 percent)

Another week, another exciting performance for Kamara, who scored a rushing touchdown for the Saints in their surprising victory over the Panthers.
I think the play with Kamara is this: He can be added and perhaps flexed in deep PPR leagues (think 16 teams), but he's an add for anyone in a smaller league (12 teams) that is curious about the upside.
New Orleans loves him and he will continue to find ways to make an impact.
Mohamed Sanu is a reliable part of a great offense and should be added in more fantasy leagues.
Getty Images

Mohamed Sanu, WR, Atlanta Falcons (38.1 percent)

Another frequent visitor to this column, Sanu remains a steady option for anyone in a PPR league with 12 or more teams.
He's going to find a home in your flex position, as he has established himself as the No.
2 receiver in a lethal passing game.
He chipped in four more catches plus a touchdown and is now on pace for 80 catches and over 110 targets over the course of the season.
He's such a steady player for Atlanta.
Marqise Lee, WR, Jacksonville Jaguars (33.2 percent)

We talk so frequently about the importance of volume in fantasy football, something that Lee is certainly seeing plenty of.
In the two full games since Allen Robinson suffered an ACL injury, Lee has seen a 28.4 percent target share for the Jaguars' offense with 19 total targets.
He's likely to stay involved, albeit in a run-first offense.
But in a 12-team or larger PPR league, Lee merits consideration.
Paul Richardson, WR, Seattle Seahawks (2.9 percent)

Doug Baldwin left the Seahawks' game against the Titans with a hamstring injury, so we'll keep an eye on his availability for Week 4.
Should Baldwin miss the game, Richardson has a chance to step into a prominent role.
He had seven targets in Week 3 plus a touchdown for the second straight game.
He has terrific speed but has never been a primary weapon in this offense.
He's an add for anyone with receiver depth concerns.
There's intrigue here.
Charles Clay, TE, Buffalo Bills (7.1 percent)

The tight end position is so volatile.
It's really hard to find consistent players at this spot and a litany of Week 2 injuries made that even more difficult in Week 3.
Clay, however, continues to motor along as a major part of the Buffalo passing attack: He has scored in two of three games this season and five of seven dating back to 2016.
If you need a tight end -- a common situation right now in fantasy football -- Clay should be on your radar.
D'Onta Foreman, RB, Houston Texans (4.3 percent)

Foreman is an intriguing player, as he may never emerge as the starter in Houston by unseating Lamar Miller, but it's clear they want him to be a part of their offense right away.
Foreman has 22 combined touches over the past two games and will certainly get his opportunities.
For someone looking to pad running back depth with a flexible bench spot, Foreman is a sensible add.
We're not necessarily banking on him taking over the Houston RB job, but if for any reason he did, he would be a key cog in your lineup.
Samaje Perine, RB, Washington Redskins (12.8 percent)

Just a heads up here in case Rob Kelley sits for yet another week, as Perine is the clear workhorse back as a rusher in Washington.
He had 19 carries -- with a largely ineffective total output of just 49 yards and a fumble -- and volume matters in fantasy.
He's a deeper league starter in non-PPR formats, though a late Week 3 hand injury bears monitoring.
Evan Engram, TE, New York Giants (17.1 percent)

The supply-and-demand issue of the tight end position should not be overlooked, as there are so few that you can rely on weekly.
If you have one of the currently injured tight ends (Greg Olsen, Tyler Eifert, etc.)
or have not yet seen significant production from your normal starter, Engram merits consideration.
It's early, but he's on pace for nearly 70 catches and 800 receiving yards.
Deeper league considerations

These players should be considered if you play in a league with 14 or more teams.
Deshaun Watson has a ton of talent and is a name to watch at the QB position in fantasy football.
Getty Images

Deshaun Watson, QB, Houston Texans (10.1 percent)

Oh boy, am I intrigued by Watson.
Let's not overlook some of the limitations, as he has strides to make as a thrower and an overall decision-maker, but his rushing ability gives him a higher floor than most rookie quarterbacks and certainly a higher ceiling.
He threw for more than 300 yards against the Patriots -- an impressive performance, all things considered -- while adding 41 yards on the ground.
According to ESPN Stats & Information tracking, he had 112 passing yards outside of the pocket, proof that his athleticism is helping him as a passer and a rusher.
A fantasy manager should never be left frustrated with Watson at the helm, and he's an intriguing two-quarterback league add or a bye week fill-in to consider based on his matchup in a given week.
Jared Goff, QB, Los Angeles Rams (6.5 percent)

Has the competition been particularly stiff?
Has Goff looked like an entirely different player compared to when he was a rookie?
I'm a firm believer in head coach Sean McVay and his staff.
Goff merits two-quarterback league consideration, or, like Watson, can be a bye week fill-in pending his matchup.
Robert Woods, WR, Los Angeles Rams (3.7 percent)

While Sammy Watkins is Goff's most talented wideout and Cooper Kupp has intriguing upside, Woods has carved out a near every-down role in this offense.
He played all but four snaps in Week 3 and with Watkins in the concussion protocol, Woods should stay busy after a six-catch game.
Jamaal Charles, RB, Denver Broncos (19.9 percent)

Charles found the end zone for the first time since October 2016 in Week 3.
He's up to 28 carries through three games and is staying involved in a run-dedicated offense.
Charles is a smart depth add at running back.
Vernon Davis, TE, Washington Redskins (4.4 percent)

The best place to look for a Jordan Reed replacement might just be in Washington.
Davis is still a capable fill-in, which he proved in Week 3, finding the end zone and hauling in five catches for 58 yards.
Sterling Shepard, WR, New York Giants (30.7 percent)

He has seven catches in two of three games this season.
Shepard is clearly a talented player, but the Giants' offense is still largely stuck in the mud.
If it gets on track, there's too much talent to ignore.
Geronimo Allison, WR, Green Bay Packers (.4 percent)

With Randall Cobb out, Allison played a virtual starting role for Green Bay, a team that plays plenty of snaps in three-receiver sets.
He made good with six catches and 122 yards.
If Cobb sits another week, Allison should continue to play plenty.
Austin Seferian-Jenkins, TE, New York Jets (1.0 percent)

In his first game back from a two-game suspension, Seferian-Jenkins hauled in five catches on six targets.
The Jets are bereft of passing-game options, but ASJ showed well in the extremely impressive win over the Dolphins in Week 3.
BEST AND WORST

QBs OF WEEK

Start
PHILADELPHIA -- In an earlier, headier part of his NFL coaching career, Ben McAdoo once talked of his players having to "learn how to handle success."
This is not a problem with which McAdoo and his New York Giants are currently grappling.
Editor's Picks Week 4 NFL Power Rankings: Let's talk about your QB Tom Brady and his 40-year-old arm are carrying the Patriots.
Deshaun Watson continues to improve.
And Joe Flacco isn't looking so elite.
Here's how all 32 teams (and their quarterbacks) stack up so far.
Barnwell: Seasons that changed over 23 minutes of Week 3 madness Just how great were the 1 p.m.
ET games on Sunday?
The top five games produced the seventh-best average Excitement Index since 2005.
Here's what you need to know about each matchup.
Best rookie performances of Week 3: Watson, McCaffrey, Cook, Hunt stay hot Here's a closer look at how some of the top rookies fared in Week 3.
2 Related

McAdoo's second year as head coach has started as poorly as anyone could have imagined.
The Giants are one of five 0-3 teams in the NFL.
They have scored in only four of 12 quarters.
In the past week, McAdoo has been criticized for calling out his veteran quarterback; for insufficiently calling out his young left tackle and his star wide receiver; for myriad in-game coaching decisions; and for refusing to answer questions about whether he'll give up playcalling duties.
(He won't.)
Just imagine what it must be like to look back on a 2016 season in which you were routinely the butt of jokes about your hair, your mustache, your wardrobe and the size of your play sheet and think, "Those were the days!"
Yeah, it's hard out here for a coach, and Tom Coughlin's successor is finding that the road to legacy is studded with potholes.
McAdoo was the most successful of the first-year head coaches hired during the 2016 cycle, leading the Giants to an 11-5 record and their first playoff berth in five years.
Miami's Adam Gase was right behind him at 10-6 and was the only other first-year coach to reach the playoffs last season.
Tampa Bay's Dirk Koetter went 9-7 and just missed out.
Philadelphia's Doug Pederson went 7-9.
San Francisco's Chip Kelly went 2-14 and got fired.
Cleveland's Hue Jackson went 1-15 and didn't get fired.
And while there's no reason to think any of the remaining four (or McAdoo, for that matter) are on the "hot seat" at this point, Sunday wasn't a great day for this group.
Only one of them won (at the expense of another), and their teams were outscored by a combined 136-102.
Encores aren't an easy business, and these seats sometimes do get warm more quickly than you think.
So this week's "What we learned" column looks at each of these five second-year coaches, what we learned Sunday about where their teams stand and how things are likely to look for them at the end of the 2017 season.
Ben McAdoo, New York Giants

The Giants are in real trouble, sitting at 0-3 overall and 0-2 in the NFC East.
The offense scored 24 points in the fourth quarter in Week 3 and appeared on the verge of a season-saving victory, before a lousy punt and a 61-yard Eagles field goal broke their Big Blue hearts.
I still think the NFC East will end up being an ugly jumble, thanks to travel schedules and games against West division teams, and it's possible the winner could finish 9-7.
But that would require the Giants to go 9-4 from here out.
McAdoo's test right now is to make sure his locker room doesn't mutiny -- something his predecessor was able to avoid amid successive rough starts from 2013 to 2015.
Whatever McAdoo once said about handling success, showing an ability to manage a team through failure is his current mission -- even if all that means is making sure your players conduct themselves like professionals through a lost season.
Prediction: Too many tough road games left -- Tampa Bay, Denver, Oakland, Arizona, Washington -- plus home games against the likes of Kansas City and Seattle.
It'll get better from here because it has to, but this Giants team will struggle to get to .500 and will miss the playoffs for the fifth time in six years.
Doug Pederson is 9-10 as coach of the Eagles.
AP Photo/Michael Perez

Doug Pederson, Philadelphia Eagles

The beneficiary of that 61-yard field goal, Pederson has a 2-1 team that's tied for first place in the division.
Nevertheless, he spent the 24 hours that followed his victory answering questions and hearing ridicule about a variety of questionable in-game decisions.
He defended an indefensible decision to go for it on fourth-and-8 from midfield in the second quarter by referring to "the guy that's helping me upstairs with some of the analytics."
Pederson and offensive coordinator Frank Reich, both former NFL quarterbacks, have received well-deserved praise for their early work with quarterback Carson Wentz.
But if the Eagles are going to be a factor in that NFC East jumble, Pederson will get the full Andy Reid treatment from the league's most persistent local media contingent.
That means every in-game decision and every press conference quote is fodder for next-day talk show angst.
And that plays a lot tougher when the miracle field goal misses than when it slips through the bottom right corner of the uprights.
Prediction: This Eagles team is still a work in progress.
Wentz will establish himself as a star in Year 2, but he still will make his share of young-quarterback mistakes.
Couple that with Pederson's head-coach growing pains, the lack of a run game and issues in the secondary, and this is an Eagles team on the rise but still not good enough to win the East -- unless it's at 8-8 or 9-7 with tiebreaker help.
Dirk Koetter, Tampa Bay Buccaneers

A fun season of "Hard Knocks" got everybody fired up about this Bucs team, and a dominating Week 2 victory over the Chicago Bears (their hurricane-delayed season debut) made you think that excitement must be justified.
But Tampa Bay got smoked in Week 3 by Case Keenum and the Minnesota Vikings.
And Koetter's crew is dealing with a potentially crippling rash of injuries on the defensive side of the ball.
Another offensive coach tasked with the development of a young quarterback, Koetter also is tasked with helping convince his up-and-coming team it can make life difficult for the defending NFC champion Atlanta Falcons, who by the way are 3-0 already.
Look back to the kinds of things Jack Del Rio was doing with the Oakland Raiders early last season -- going for it on fourth down in key late-game spots, for instance.
He was trying to teach a team that hadn't won in a while what it felt like to win -- and to play to win.
Koetter would do well to look for those kinds of opportunities early, while the Bucs are finding their feet.
Prediction: The Bucs don't play the Carolina Panthers until Week 8 or the Falcons until Week 12, so by the time the NFC South race really gets going, we'll have learned a lot more about this team.
I think they're good enough to snag a wild-card spot, with Cam Newton scuffling and the NFC East and West each looking unlikely to produce more than one playoff team.
Adam Gase called his team's performance on Sunday "just a lot of bad football."
Photo by Rich Schultz/Getty Images

Adam Gase, Miami Dolphins

There was no more embarrassing loss in the league this week than the Dolphins' 20-6 defeat at the hands of a New York Jets team that isn't built to win any games this season.
The defense fell apart, the offense never got going and a Dolphins team that might be the AFC East's best hope against the New England Patriots fell to 1-1.
Quarterback Jay Cutler, the guy Gase yanked out of the broadcast booth because Ryan Tannehill got hurt and he needed someone who knew his offense, called Sunday a "wake-up call."
The question for the Dolphins is, "Wake up from what?"
Gase has shown promise, but he's in a position similar to that of McAdoo, in that he set a high first-year bar and will be judged against it.
One thing he has that McAdoo doesn't is experience recovering from a rough start.
The Dolphins started 1-4 last season and won nine of their last 11 games.
So 1-1 isn't that big a deal down there.
Prediction: Another playoff berth with another flawed roster would stamp Gase as a major coaching superstar on the come.
But Miami still has to go to Atlanta, Baltimore, Carolina, New England and Kansas City.
There are too many good teams in the AFC, and Cutler isn't the guy to write a hero story.
The Dolphins will miss the playoffs.
Hue Jackson, Cleveland Browns

So distressed are the Andrew Luck-less Indianapolis Colts that the Browns were actually favored in Sunday's game.
This is an event so rare that you need to order special glasses from Amazon in order to look directly at it.
Less rare was the outcome -- a Browns loss, their 18th in 19 games with Jackson as coach.
You hear a lot from people in the Browns organization about the way Jackson's energy and positivity keep the building upbeat and hopeful for the future.
But if you get to Christmas Eve again before winning your first game of the season, that energy carries you only so far.
Jimmy Haslam's track record as Browns owner has established a real "rent-don't-buy" ethos for coaches and front-office types in Cleveland, and while the people to whom I spoke insist Haslam is all-in on the rebuild, you do wonder how long that patience holds out.
Prediction: An up-and-coming defense and a fun but flawed young quarterback offer hope, and hope in and of itself is progress in Cleveland.
But this team is nowhere near playoff contention and should be thrilled to get to four or five wins.
Haslam's history makes Jackson the most likely of these coaches to find himself unemployed at the end of 2017.
After a six-week absence because of a knee injury, Bryce Harper walked, struck out and popped out to second in his three at-bats.
(0:26)

PHILADELPHIA -- Bryce Harpers biggest impact in his return to the Washington Nationals starting lineup will come in the batters box.
But the first true test in his comeback came out in the pasture.
With two outs in the bottom of the first inning Tuesday night, Philadelphias Aaron Altherr ripped a line drive down the right-field line.
As the ball bounced into the corner, Harper sprinted to retrieve it, stopped, pivoted and unleashed a one-hop throw to second base.
Altherr slid in easily with a double, and the rest of Harpers night was uneventful.
That was a perfectly welcome occurrence, given the periods of anxiety, solitude and determination that preceded his return.
Six weeks after he injured his left knee while crossing a wet first-base bag, Harper will settle for uneventful.
Washington manager Dusty Baker has called it a miracle that Harper escaped with a deep bone bruise in his left knee and is back after missing 41 games, with a week to go in the regular season.
Now Harper needs to regain his timing at the plate and shake off the residual rust that is a byproduct of spring training in September.
The worst-case scenarios still occupy a small place in the back of his mind, and theyre not pretty.
Bryce Harper stretches out before one of his three at-bats in his return to action Tuesday.
Rich Schultz/Getty Images

It was definitely exciting to get out there and play a game, Harper said after a 4-1 loss to the Phillies at Citizens Bank Park.
When something like that happens, you never know if youre going to be back.
[I think about] how hard my trainers and the workout staff worked and how hard I worked to get back.
I felt good to be out there.
While Daniel Murphy, Ryan Zimmerman and some other Washington regulars are enjoying the perks of a 21-game division lead by taking some manager-mandated downtime for general soreness, Harper is taking a crash course in October preparation.
He needs to ramp things up relatively quickly in preparation for Washingtons pending Division Series matchup with the Chicago Cubs while keeping his natural exuberance in check so that he doesnt incur a setback that might put his postseason participation at risk.
Baker plugged Harper into the second spot in the batting order Tuesday, as opposed to the No.
3 hole, in hopes that Harper might be able to snag an extra at-bat early and call it a night.
Thats precisely how things unfolded.
Harper saw a total of 12 pitches from Philadelphias Jake Thompson in three plate appearances.
He walked on four straight fastballs in the first inning, struck out on a changeup in his second at-bat and popped out on another changeup to end the top of the fifth.
At that point, Baker decided he had seen enough positive signs and pulled Harper for Victor Robles in right field.
The sight of Harper busting it into the corner on Altherrs double was enough to show his teammates that his mind is clear and he isn't favoring the knee.
Harper also suffered a calf strain in his Aug. 12 mishap against San Francisco, and every time he sprints, slides or changes direction, a lot of people in the Washington dugout will be paying attention.
At this point, the simple act of standing in the outfield for nine innings is a bit of a test.
It makes you feel good when you see Bryce hustling to get that ball," said Nationals starter Gio Gonzalez, the losing pitcher Tuesday.
I understand his situation.
You might want to let up.
Thats understandable.
The fact that he busted his tail to get there speaks to his character and how bad he wants to be here and participate.
Bryce doesnt have an 'off' switch.
If anything, he just finds a way to turn it up even more.
Harper has a .211/.318/.509 slash line in the postseason, and the Nationals have lost all three of their Division Series appearances since 2012, so he doesnt need any extra motivation.
Clich as it sounds, hes in day-by-day mode at the moment.
Harper said he planned to get up Wednesday morning, assess how he feels and then confer with Baker and the training staff on his next step.
If its all good, hell be back in the lineup against Mark Leiter Jr. for the finale of the Nationals-Phillies series.
If not, hell rest his knee and try again Thursday against Pittsburgh at Nationals Park.
Im not all that worried about what he does in these [six] games," Washington general manager Mike Rizzo said.
I just want him to get his at-bats, run around the bases a little bit and get a feel for playing baseball again.
Then the slate goes clean, and we start over again.
Thats the biggest thing for me -- for his baseball IQ to kick in and for him to do instinctive things and take his full mind off his knee and his calf and just focus on playing baseball.
By that definition, Bryce Harper's first game back was a success.
He'll find out in the coming days whether his body is ready to cooperate with the game plan.
CANTON, Mass.
-- When the Boston Celtics wrapped up their media day chores on Monday afternoon, players boarded two oversized yellow buses -- think supersized school buses with Wi-Fi and comfy seats -- and headed south for Tuesday's first day of class at Salve Regina University in Newport, Rhode Island.
The goal of this rare, three-day training camp field trip: Find Ubuntu -- or, well, something like it.
It has been 10 years since the last time the Celtics acquired two All-Stars in an offseason.
In the summer of 2007, president of basketball operations Danny Ainge impossibly turned a quartet of defiant pingpong balls into Ray Allen and Kevin Garnett.
The Celtics and that Big Three -- Garnett and Allen joining forces with Paul Pierce -- trekked to Rome that October, and the team embraced Ubuntu (a philosophy in which the collective success of a group is prioritized over an individual) after coach Doc Rivers preached its powers.
Boston players used that European adventure to bond.
The Celtics' starting five, including Rajon Rondo and Kendrick Perkins, all shaved their heads on the trip, and a brotherhood was forged.
You probably can remember what happened from there: The Celtics won 66 games and navigated a fascinating postseason run that culminated with raising Banner 17 after besting the rival Los Angeles Lakers in six games.
Celtics coach Brad Stevens need not pack any shears for Newport (no way anyone is getting near Gordon Hayward's perfect locks).
Seventy-two hours spent 72 miles south of the team's home base is unlikely to have the same impact as that 2007 trek overseas.
But for noted homebody Stevens, the fact that the Celtics are uprooting even for a few days speaks volumes about his desire to force his new-look roster into situations in which players must interact and build the bonds that are so vital to team success in the NBA.
Gordon Hayward, Al Horford and Kyrie Irving could use some days away to reset the summer and be ready for a new season.
AP Photo/Steven Senne

What the Celtics did this summer is unprecedented.
No team that led its conference in wins the previous season has ever returned four players or fewer in league history, according to ESPN Stats & Information.
Boston's returning quartet includes only Al Horford, Marcus Smart, Jaylen Brown and Terry Rozier.
Smart, the No.
6 pick in the 2014 draft, is Boston's longest-tenured player after the roster teardown.
"That's still a shock to me," said Smart.
"I'm 23 years old and you guys are calling me the longest-tenured Celtic.
I never in a million years would have thought about that."
Or as Terry Rozier III (the Roman numerals added to his jersey this offseason) more bluntly put it: "To remain on the Celtics after a tornado happened is crazy."
To sign Hayward to a max contract, changes were necessary.
Familiar faces such as Avery Bradley and Kelly Olynyk were lost to make a free-agent splash.
It turned out that was only a warm-up act, as Ainge dropped jaws around the NBA by dealing Isaiah Thomas, Jae Crowder, Ante Zizic, the Brooklyn Nets' 2018 first-round pick and the Miami Heat's 2020 second-round pick to Cleveland in exchange for Kyrie Irving.
The Celtics have 12 new faces, including six players who have never played an NBA game, if you include their two rookies on two-way, G League contracts.
For all the big splashes at the top of the roster, the bench is unproven and uncertain at best.
On Monday, on a soundstage inside a gigantic TV/film warehouse in suburban Boston, Boston's newest big three of Irving, Hayward and Horford playfully mugged for group photos.
There are obvious questions.
Can Irving be a leader outside of LeBron James' shadow?
Can Hayward continue to evolve like he did throughout his time in Utah?
But the big question as the Celtics prepared to open camp with their first two-a-day session on Tuesday morning: How long will it take Boston's star trio to develop chemistry on the court?
"We just have to be very patient with this, and I speak on that pretty often," said Irving.
"It's not trying to figure out one thing or two things in one day or after one game, it's going to come in wave.
These ups and downs, what we're about to face as a team and as a collective group, it's going to be very interesting.
It'll really echo in terms of our identity and how we respond."
It's jarring how the identity of these Celtics has changed in the four months since their season ended with a loss to Irving's former team in the Eastern Conference finals.
Boston was a spunky, overachieving group of blue-collar workers headlined by former second-round picks such as Crowder and Thomas.
Now they're stocked with former high-lottery selections, and there's an expectation of success.
ESPN's Basketball Power Index projects Boston to win an East-best 54 games, finishing ahead of the Cleveland Cavaliers, and currently gives the Celtics the best chance of meeting the Golden State Warriors in the NBA Finals.
It's easy to understand why big things are expected from Boston.
And yet no computer algorithm can truly account for the growing pains the team will most certainly endure.
That's where Newport can help, at least a little bit.
And so will the countless practices and walkthroughs at the team's typical practice facility.
These Celtics don't have to find Ubuntu over the next three days, but if they can forge a friendship or two, at least they won't have to wear nametags by the end of the week.
A desire to figure this thing out might ultimately be the best bonding agent of all.
Ainge pointed out how, even after acquiring Thomas midseason during the 2014-15 campaign, the Celtics were able to jell quickly and surge to the playoffs in part because of how much the players on that team wanted to win.
He feels a similar vibe with this group.
"Obviously, there was some talented players, but there was a hunger from each of the players that I think is sometimes underestimated," said Ainge.
"Obviously, it's gonna take time for Brad to figure out who plays best with each other and so forth, but I think that enthusiasm, that excitement that each one of our players has right now is unique and special, and we have some very special, talented players.
I think that can sometimes make up for the continuity.
"Although I will say the longer they play together, the better they should get."
Stevens, ever patient in his approach, recognizes that he won't have his desired "institutional knowledge" to lean on early this year.
"I think that one of the biggest challenges for anybody in this, in coaching or in playing, is that you want it to happen tomorrow," said Stevens.
"We're going to figure each other out.
And we've gotta be smart about not overdoing it.
"As I watch tape and film from last year of our team, there were a lot of plays that were made instinctively out of kind of a knowledge of each other.
And we're going to have to build and grow.
And it takes some time.
But everybody seems to be onboard, excited and ready to roll with trying to make it as good as it can be as quickly as it can be."
Life is good for Sgt.
Ivan Sears.
This year alone, he was named a co-captain of the United States team for the 2017 Invictus Games in Toronto, he married Sarah Wallace and he welcomed Ellie Rose Sears to the world.
And now he's making his very first visit to Canada to compete in -- let's see -- the 100 meters, the 200 meters, the 400 meters and the 1,500 meters in wheelchair racing, as well as rowing and rugby.
"I just love to compete," he says.
Almost exactly seven years ago, Sears nearly lost his life when he stepped on an improvised explosive device while serving with the Marines in Marjah, Afghanistan.
As he would later write, "At that moment, time froze and I saw dirt fly up and felt myself flying up in the air.
Finally landing in the hole that was made from the explosion, I lost my legs right away.
From there, my friends pulled me out of the hole and helped stop the bleeding.
... Fifteen minutes later, the bird came."
Congratulations to Sgt.
Ivan Sears for being selected as the Male Marine Athlete of the Year for the Marine Corps!
pic.twitter.com/yJzse20Wpq  USMC WWR (@USMCWWR) February 5, 2015

The helicopter flew him to a nearby hospital, and five days later he was back in the States for treatment of his wounds and rehabilitation -- he had also suffered two broken hips, hearing loss and hand injuries.
Meanwhile, back in Albuquerque, New Mexico, his family was devastated.
"I was in the Marines for 21 years," says his father, Robert, now a deputy sheriff in Bernalillo County.
"Retired as a gunnery sergeant.
We're a military family going back to my great-grandfather.
We know the dangers.
But this news hit us hard, real hard."
There's a YouTube clip from a local news show of Ivan's homecoming a few months later -- 3,000 people came to the Albuquerque airport to greet him when he interrupted his rehab in San Antonio, Texas, to attend his sister's bat mitzvah.
Still learning to walk on his prosthetic legs, he looked frail and overwhelmed.
When asked his thoughts by a TV reporter, he replied, "Amazing."
But the really amazing part was still to come.
As so often happens with wounded warriors, Sears had to come to grips with his new reality.
"A chaplain friend had warned me," says his father.
"He said, 'Thoughts of suicide aren't an if.
They're a when.'"
As Ivan admits, "I was in a dark place at one point.
I didn't want to leave my room or do anything, just stay there, watch TV and be lazy."
He hadn't been much of an athlete in high school.
"JROTC was Ivan's sport," says his father.
"He wanted to be a Marine ever since he was a boy."
Ivan joined the Corps in October of 2008 at age 18.
After boot camp, infantry training and a spell at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina, he was deployed to Afghanistan in 2010.
He took shrapnel in his leg and forearm in September of that year but soon returned to his unit.
Then on Oct. 7, he stepped on the IED.
One thing about the Marine Corps is you're always surrounded by people who care about you.
Just as friends pulled Ivan out of that hole in Marjah, other wounded warriors at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda, Maryland, encouraged him to get out into the world and give sports a try.
"I was given a choice," says Ivan.
"Stay in grief, or get over it.
I was given a sense of purpose."
He was introduced to rowing first, and then to wheelchair racing.
By 2012, he was racing in competitions.
At the Warrior Games in Colorado Springs in 2014, he won his first gold medal in the 1,500 meters.
"That first one felt so great," says Ivan.
"I wanted more."
Ivan Sears will be competing at the 2017 Invictus Games in wheelchair racing, rowing and rugby.
Courtesy Ivan Sears

Sears has stayed in the Marines and now works with the families of wounded warriors at the Brooke Army Medical Center in San Antonio.
And he's snagged more gold medals.
At the 2016 Invictus Games in Orlando, Florida, he won four wheelchair races: the 100, 200, 400 and 1,500.
If you watch wheelchair racing at this high level, you're struck not only by the hand and arm strength of the competitors, but also by their aerodynamic stillness and tactical intelligence.
You'll also find yourself in awe of the engineering and maintenance it must take to make those chairs fly around the track.
"Just like a car, you have to worry about the tires and the rims," says Ivan.
"Gloves are important, too."
In order to maintain his own body, Ivan works out religiously: cardio, weights, exercises to strengthen his core.
He has his duties as a sergeant and new responsibilities as a husband and father, but "somehow I find the time."
His father and sister Natasha will be in Toronto to see him compete and keep the other members of his devoted family apprised of how he does.
"I am so proud of him," says Robert.
"He got through the darkness, and he is representing his country and the Marines.
Maybe not in the way we all first envisioned when we joined the Marines, but in a way that shows people the meaning of patriotism.
It's not just him I'm proud of, either.
It's all the wounded warriors.
"When we old Marines get together, you often hear about how much tougher we were than these young guys.
That's baloney.
The moral compass of Ivan's generation is as true as ours.
Their courage is as strong as ours.
You see that at the Invictus Games."
Once upon a time, a skinny, overwhelmed kid came home to figure out what he was going to do with the rest of his life without his legs.
When you look at Ivan Sears now, a confident, strapping athlete, Marine and family man, you realize the power of sports.
"They saved me," he says.
As his father says, "We got our son back -- and a baby granddaughter."
Since 1994, the golf world has regularly gathered to field-test a question: How would top golfers from everywhere but Europe fare against the best of the U.S.?
Answer: not well!
In 11 Presidents Cups, the U.S. has won nine, lost one and tied one, when in 2003 the team simultaneously ran out of sunlight and the desire to see the internationals lose again.
Another exercise in sanctioned jingoism is slated for Sept. 28 to Oct. 1 at an almost aggressively patriotic site, New Jersey's Liberty National Golf Course.
There, with a fine view of the Statue of Liberty, the U.S. will be favored to triumph for a seventh straight time.
But will it?
We put that question to our own favorite test -- a metric test.
NOT IN PHIL'S HOUSE

Say this for the Presidents Cup -- it's less-bad TV than it used to be.
While three of the first four Cups were blowouts, recent ones have actually been semicompetitive.
But through it all, one constant remains: the ironclad U.S. home-course advantage.
Credit the Yanks' 6-0 home record to overserved fans, friendly setups or familiar layouts (like Liberty National, where 12-time Cup-man Phil Mickelson is a member).
But no matter the reason, there's no denying the U.S. is a downright hostile nation for visiting golfers.
TELLING NUMBER: 5.2 -- The average winning margin of U.S. teams at home -- compared with an average margin of 0.2 abroad.
Team winning margin

AMERICA'S GREAT, AGAIN

Another bulletproof correlation: roster strength.
This might seem intuitive.
(The better team wins?
But non-stroke-play formats are supposed to mitigate the talent gap -- and they don't.
Plotting each roster against the average world rank of prior Cup players (23.2) shows that after 1998, no below-average international team has won, and no above-average U.S. team has lost.
Indeed, every U.S. team at least 30 percent stronger than average has won by at least three points.
This year's U.S. team: 32 percent above average.
The internationals: 41 percent below.
Game over!
TELLING NUMBER: 15.7 -- The average world rank of the 2017 U.S. players, 17 spots higher than that of your tired, your poor, your Team International (32.7).
Roster strength, percentage above/below average
Team captains Steve Stricker and Nick Price look ahead to the 2017 Presidents Cup while at a lighting ceremony in celebration of the event at New York's Empire State Building.
(1:40)

JERSEY CITY, N.J. -- Can the Americans extend their streak of Presidents Cup victories to seven in a row?
Or maybe the International team will notch its first win this century?
ESPN.com's golf experts weigh in on what to expect in the week ahead at Liberty National Golf Club for the 12th playing of the Presidents Cup.
U.S. MVP

ESPN.com senior golf writer Bob Harig: Patrick Reed.
After a quiet year as an individual, Reed is ready to break out.
He loves the team competitions, and expect more success out of him with partner Jordan Spieth.
Editor's Picks Presidents Cup tournament schedule, scores and coverage Get news coverage, analysis and scores on ESPN for the 12th edition of the Presidents Cup at Liberty National Golf Club in Jersey City, New Jersey.
Stricker: No silent protests from U.S. golf team U.S. captain Steve Stricker says his team has decided it won't stage any silent protests as the Presidents Cup begins this week.
Confident Berger custom fit for match play Daniel Berger, who tees it up in his first pro team competition at the Presidents Cup, oozes with confidence.
That character trait will serve him well this week at Liberty National.
2 Related

ESPN.com senior golf writer Jason Sobel: Dustin Johnson.
For all the attention on Jordan Spieth, Justin Thomas and even last year's hero, Patrick Reed, the world's No.
1-ranked player is still DJ -- and he'll assert that role this week.
ESPN.com senior golf editor Kevin Maguire: Jordan Spieth.
A 5-0 week might be a bold prediction for the three-time major champion, but anything less than 3 points would come as a surprise given this is his third Presidents Cup and he's only 24 years old.
International MVP

Harig: Adam Scott.
A veteran of seven International teams, Scott is tired of the losing.
It's time he carried the team on his back.
Sobel: Branden Grace.
Two years ago, Grace went 5-0 in an impressive individual performance.
That success might not be sustainable, but expect continued strong play here.
Maguire: Jason Day.
The Aussie went 0-5 in the 2015 Presidents Cup in South Korea and clearly wants to contribute more to the team.
He's in solid form of late, posting three top-10s in his past five starts, and he's ready to take a larger leadership role inside the ropes this week.
U.S. breakout player

Harig: Justin Thomas.
This is his first team competition for the United States as a pro, but does anyone expect him to act or play like a rookie?
Nobody won more money on the PGA Tour this year than Justin Thomas, but this week's Presidents Cup marks his first time representing the United States as a pro in a team competition.
Kyle Terada-USA TODAY Sports

Sobel: Daniel Berger.
According to his teammates, nobody is more pumped to compete than Berger, who has the confidence and moxie necessary to succeed in match play.
Maguire: Kevin Kisner.
PGA Tour watchers last week will have noticed that he "snuck" up to see his Georgia Bulldogs play on the Saturday night of the Tour Championship.
This week, they'll see the competitive streak that will leave fans wondering how he hasn't been on one of these Cup teams before now.
International breakout player

Harig: Hideki Matsuyama.
The Japanese star has struggled since the PGA Championship, but this is his third Presidents Cup and he's ready to be a force.
Sobel: Emiliano Grillo.
None other than Spieth calls the Argentinian one of the world's best ball strikers.
If he's on his game, he's going to be tough to beat.
Maguire: Grillo.
When he stands on the first tee for his opening match, he might feel the nerves, but it won't be because the likes of Jordan Spieth or Justin Thomas are standing across from him.
Grillo played with these major champions in his junior golf days, so he won't be intimidated by their presence.
U.S. team wins if ...

Harig: ... it does what is always does, which is never let up.
The Americans have led after every session going back to 2005.
Sobel: ... everything goes according to plan, the three pods of foursomes all mesh well, and a few of its back-of-the-roster players step up when needed most.
Maguire: ... the top American players aren't burned out from a long FedEx Cup playoffs schedule and can play up to their world rankings.
On paper, this should be a Team USA rout, but that's not always how these things play out.
International team wins if ...

Harig: ... it gets some strong performances from players near the bottom of the lineup, a regular sore spot.
The team usually has its depth exposed, but if Emiliano Grillo, Adam Hadwin and Anirban Lahiri come through, then all of a sudden the matches take on a different look.
Sobel: ... the U.S. team (which had 11 players competing last week) looks tired and three-time captain Nick Price outmaneuvers American counterpart Steve Stricker with his strategic decisions.
Maguire: ... its last few automatic qualifiers, as well as the captain's picks, produce winning records.
Each team expects its top-ranked players to pick up points, but it's often left to the lesser-known names who seal the deal for a victory.
JERSEY CITY, N.J. -- "What are we playing for?"
the precocious 13-year-old asked the golf professional who'd just finished a competitive playing career.
Matt Doyle had only met Daniel Berger minutes earlier.
Daniel's father, Jay Berger, had recently moved their family due north in South Florida, from Key Biscayne to Jupiter, and needed some help.
Jay had always been a tennis guy.
He was once the seventh-ranked male player in the world, a doubles partner of Andre Agassi, a three-time ATP champion, two-time Davis Cup team member and a man who would become the United States Olympic coach.
Golf was out of his realm of expertise, but Daniel had taken a keen interest in the game.
Rather than attempt to transfer his tennis wisdom onto the second-oldest of his four children, Jay sought a proper instructor.
He'd heard about Doyle from Ivan Lendl, a mutual friend who'd morphed from the world's best tennis player into an excellent golfer.
So Jay brought Daniel to The Dye Preserve, where Doyle was working as an assistant pro.
"I watched him hit for maybe five or 10 minutes," Doyle recalls.
"I didn't even say anything, I just watched.
You could tell he had the hand-eye coordination.
He knew what he was doing."
Doyle wanted to see whether he could bring it to the course, so he asked Daniel to join him for 18 holes.
That's when the 13-year-old kid asked about the stakes.
Part of the heralded high school class of 2011, Daniel Berger owns two PGA Tour wins and will make his professional team competition debut this week at the Presidents Cup.
Brett Davis-USA TODAY Sports

The pro bemusedly deferred, knowing he was only months removed from chasing his own PGA Tour dream.
Daniel made a suggestion.
"Let's play a $20 closeout," he said.
"Are you good with that?"
Doyle countered.
Already a scratch-handicap needler, the kid poked back.
"Are you good with losing to a 13-year-old?"
The 13-year-old didn't win the match, but he did win a lot more.
Daniel holed out for an eagle on the back nine, broke 70 and immediately got the attention of his opponent -- and new boss.
When they finished, Doyle told Jay that he needed someone to pick the range during late afternoons.
If Daniel would do that, he was free to practice and play at the facility anytime he wanted.
Not bad for a kid who'd taken up the game only two years earlier.
At some point this week, as Daniel follows in the family footsteps by representing the U.S. in a team competition, playing in his first Presidents Cup, Jay will remember that first round they shared together.
Daniel was 11 at the time, and they'd traveled to Daytona Beach on a tennis trip.
Father and son each took a golf lesson, then hit the links.
Once they'd finished, Daniel told his dad that he wanted to be a professional golfer someday.
Then he asked him a question.
"How many hours a day do you practice for tennis?"
"I practice five hours a day," Jay told him, thinking that might be enough to scare him away from the idea.
"OK," replied Daniel.
"Then I'm going to practice eight hours a day."
Jay loves telling this story today, punctuating the kicker.
"On my life," he says, "he practiced eight hours a day, every single day that summer."
The hard work has clearly paid off.
Still more than six months shy of his 25th birthday, Daniel Berger is already a two-time PGA Tour champion, four-time runner-up and part of the Class of 2011 high school graduates, along with Jordan Spieth and Justin Thomas, a group that is taking the golf world by storm.
"The first thing I told my dad when I turned pro is, 'I want to play for money.'
I didn't want to play for these crystal trophies.
I mean, they're cool and all, but I wanted to get paid.
I knew if I did the right things, I could."
Daniel Berger

It was all spawned during those formative years, which he spent honing his swing at The Dye Preserve -- and playing money matches against some of the club's big-name professionals.
In particular, Steve Marino became a regular foil.
At the time, Marino was a thriving PGA Tour member, posting 18 top-10 finishes between 2007 and 2010.
When he was home, though, he could often be found hanging at the course with young Berger.
"I was like 14 years old, just this little s---," Berger recalls.
"I don't give Steve enough credit for taking me under his wing.
I think I just had this f--- you attitude, where even though he was top-30 in the world, I was like, 'Dude, I'm going to beat you right now.'
He might have seen some of himself in me."
Doyle remembers the first time Berger beat Marino in a match.
They'd played nine holes, and the kid broke par to finally win.
"It was at least a few hundred bucks," Doyle says.
"He was like, 'I told you I could beat him.'"
The next day, Marino got his revenge.
Instead of money, he took the kid's brand-new iPod.
It was all part of the learning process.
If you don't like losing, he soon understood, then you'd better win instead.
Berger wasn't just talented and motivated.
He was self-sufficient.
Two days after getting his driver's license at 16, he drove six hours to Jacksonville to play in a tournament, then drove home afterward.
Upon high school graduation, he played for two years at Florida State before realizing it was stalling his evolution as a golfer.
"A lot of things that we did in college weren't the things you can do to be a top-tier athlete," he says.
"You can't go out and drink four nights a week, you can't eat McDonald's, you can't lift heavy weights.
I had the knowledge of what it takes to be a professional athlete.
I knew that if I wanted to be a professional, I needed to change the way I was doing things."
Not long after Spieth turned pro in late 2012, Berger followed.
The kid who'd always been so independent was ready to embark on a professional career.
"The first thing I told my dad when I turned pro is, 'I want to play for money.'
I didn't want to play for these crystal trophies.
I mean, they're cool and all, but I wanted to get paid.
I knew if I did the right things, I could."
A professional golfer who lacks confidence probably won't be a professional golfer very long.
Some, though, exude the trait more than others, oozing confidence from their pores.
Consider Berger among this group.
Editor's Picks Presidents Cup tournament schedule, scores and coverage Get news coverage, analysis and scores on ESPN for the 12th edition of the Presidents Cup at Liberty National Golf Club in Jersey City, New Jersey.
Numbers don't lie: Why the U.S. will win the Presidents Cup Every two years, the Presidents Cup pits the U.S. against the world.
And every two years, history repeats itself.
Team USA Presidents Cup roster Ten players automatically qualified on Monday for the United States Presidents Cup team, including major champions Dustin Johnson, Brooks Koepka, Jordan Spieth and Justin Thomas.
2 Related

"You have to have a really strong belief in yourself," he admits.
"I do, because I've put in the work and done everything I can to be successful."
Asked whether the lines are blurred between his confidence and cockiness, he acquiesces.
"A little bit.
I tend to think I'm pretty good at things I'm not good at.
I think I can beat Matt Kuchar in pingpong.
Deep down, I know I can't.
But I keep telling him I'm going to beat his ass.
If that's cocky, then yeah, I'm cocky."
Not that there's anything wrong with that.
"He's always been that way," acknowledges Brooks Koepka, his teammate for one year at Florida State and again on this year's Presidents Cup team.
"But if you're not cocky, there's something wrong with you.
Everybody out here is confident and thinks they're the best.
That's what he thinks -- and he should."
Last year, Berger was battling Phil Mickelson for the title in Memphis -- the same Mickelson who at the time was twice his age and owned 42 career PGA Tour victories to his zero.
While the acerbic lefthander ribbed his young peer for claiming the Rookie of the Year title without winning a tournament, Berger punched right back, referring to him formally as "Philip."
"He says only his wife calls him that," Berger said on Saturday of that week.
"I can't call him that until I win on the PGA Tour."
The next day, he won.
Those old recollections of losing cash and surrendering his iPod still ring true for Berger.
If there's a criticism of this era's growing group of 20-something superstars, it's that PGA Tour riches might have forced a complacency that never developed in previous generations.
That notion can be easily argued, of course, and Berger is doing his part to prove that anything other than winning is an unsatisfactory option.
"If I finish 10th, I'm pissed at a 10th-place finish," he says.
"If I finish fifth, I'm pissed at a fifth-place finish."
One of the most memorable moments from this summer's golf schedule occurred at the Travelers Championship.
On the first hole of a playoff, Spieth holed a bunker shot for birdie, airborne rakes and wedges prompting pandemonium among the raucous gallery.
Often forgotten is the fact that once decorum was restored, Berger nearly drained his own 35-foot birdie attempt.
"He put beautiful speed on it," Spieth sighed afterward.
"At about the halfway point, I'm like, 'Is he really going to make this?'"
As Thomas explains of Berger, "He hates to lose.
He's told me before, he hates losing to me and he doesn't like it when we're playing well, because he wants to beat us.
It takes a man to admit that."
Jay Berger insists he never pressured his son to become a professional golfer, never had to implore him to work harder or practice more.
He does, though, take some indirect credit for Daniel's competitive desire.
"I think his genetic makeup is to be a competitor," Jay says.
"I think he has a very healthy relationship with competing.
That's the way he was brought up.
It was never about the winning -- it was about the process behind it, trying to get better."
Berger's confidence, cockiness and full array of moxie will be on display this week, as he competes for the red, white and blue for his first time as a pro.
It's a feeling his father already knows, a legacy being passed down from one generation to the next.
Now he'll finally get a taste of what he's wanted for so long.
"I've got chills just thinking about it," Berger says.
"I love to have teammates that rely on you, and I love to rely on teammates.
For me, this is the pinnacle.
Team golf, it can't get any better."
The 2017-18 class of fantasy basketball stars is one of the deepest in history, but who is the cream of the crop?
Our experts make their cases for which player they would take first overall for roto scoring systems and for leagues that play in weekly head-to-head matchups.
Let the debate begin ...

Roto leagues

Play Fantasy Basketball For Free An eventful summer in the NBA will make for an exciting 2017-18 fantasy hoops season.
Create or join an ESPN Fantasy Basketball league today!
Sign up for free!
Eric Karabell: Westbrook finished second to James Harden on the 2016-17 Player Rater, though it wasn't for lack of trying.
Westbrook was awesome, averaging a triple-double, though he left a bit to be desired in field goal percentage.
OK, so Westbrook's team added Paul George and Carmelo Anthony, who have been big-time scorers.
Harden's Rockets added Chris Paul, a pure point guard.
I don't see Harden coming all that close to matching Westbrook in rebounds or assists, and I'd like to get a head start in those categories by selecting Westbrook first.
I can get the extra 3s and safe field goal shooters later.
Both are great -- and the only ones I'd consider first in a roto setting -- but I don't see Westbrook losing too many stats despite the addition of George and Melo addition.
In fact, the assists could rise a bit.
Editor's Picks 2017-18 fantasy basketball draft kit Mock drafts, roto rankings, points rankings, projections, player profiles, draft strategies, DFS strategies -- we've got everything you need to dominate fantasy basketball from every angle.
Fantasy basketball sleepers, breakouts, busts for 2017-18 Every season, the manager in your league who avoids flops, nabs at least one breakout player and finds values others are sleeping on during the draft comes out on top.
Heed our experts' picks, so you can be that manager this time.
1 Related

Kyle Soppe: In Roto, it's about the versatility in the early rounds, and what better way to check all the boxes than with Mr. Triple-Double?
Based on Player Rater value, Westbrook finished inside the top 12 players in six of eight categories last season, and while the additions of George and Anthony might regress his usage a touch, you're still looking at an historically involved player.
It's possible the counting stats come back to earth in 2017-18, but I'd speculate that any impact felt by fantasy owners in that regard is offset by an increase in efficiency.
I'm all-in on waiting for point guards ... if you pick at any spot but first overall.
John Cregan: When there's a razor-thin margin separating the top players (and you could make an argument for up to five to go in the top slot in roto), I like to go with the player I feel has the most upside.
Meaning upside within his own game and his role on his team.
Antetokounmpo is building momentum in that he's still several seasons from his peak production, and he's increasing control on his team.
There are more touches available for him to suddenly take as his offensive game grows.
Joe Kaiser: Passing up on Westbrook or Harden for Antetokounmpo wouldn't make sense if there were a strong chance that Westbrook and/or Harden could repeat their numbers from last season, but that isn't going to happen with Paul joining Harden in Houston and George and Anthony taking shots away from Westbrook in OKC.
Meanwhile, Antetokounmpo enters his fifth NBA season after notching career highs nearly across the board: 22.9 PPG, 8.8 RPG, 5.4 APG, 1.9 BPG, 1.6 SPG, 52.1 FG%, 77 FT%.
As strong as those numbers are, the amazing part is Antetokounmpo doesn't turn 23 until December, which means he hasn't even come close to reaching his peak.
His efficiency sets him apart from Westbrook and Harden, and if he can add more 3PG to his game (he hit 53 last season), the Greek Freak will distance himself as the surefire No.
1 player in roto leagues this season.
James Harden

Jim McCormick: Harden offers 80 percent of Stephen Curry's 3-point and steals production while also rivaling Westbrook in rebounds and dimes.
The bearded one led the NBA in free throw attempts and makes per game last season.
This all adds up to roto success.
There are certainly legitimate contenders for this perch atop the roto rankings, as Antetokounmpo is an ascendant playmaker with Andrei Kirilenko-like defensive value, and Russ will still likely lead the NBA in usage rate.
Yet it's Harden at the centerpiece of an offense that shot at an historic 3-point rate last season -- an NBA-record 46 percent of the Rockets' shots came from beyond the arc last season.
While some see overlap in skill sets and specific usage with Paul, I see Harden arguably seeing better looks around the floor than he has since he was in Oklahoma City; Paul has finished first, second and fourth over the past three seasons, respectively, in adjusted assist-to-pass percentage.
No other player offers such a comfortably high and coveted floor across multiple important categories as Harden.
He's the Mike Trout of fantasy basketball production.
Points leagues

Russell Westbrook

Joe Kaiser: Westbrook's 2016-17 season will go down in history as one of the greatest of all-time.
Not only did he have 42 triple-doubles, he also averaged a triple-double (31.6 PPG, 10.7 RPG, 10.4 APG).
While that is unlikely to happen again due to the additions of George and Anthony, Westbrook's ability to fill up the stat sheet not only as a scorer, rebounder and distributor, but also in the steals department (1.6 SPG last year) gives him the nod over Antetokounmpo and Harden in points leagues.
It's also noteworthy that while his 42.5 FG% from a season ago was a crusher to that category in roto leagues, it doesn't have as much of an impact in points leagues.
Eric Karabell: In points leagues, the other option for me would be Minnesota's Karl-Anthony Towns, a magnificent, young player who fills the 20-10 needs we want for big men, along with the blocked shots, but I still like to build around point guards and power forwards if possible.
Westbrook is the best point guard, and I believe even in points formats, the better option.
In the middle rounds, I seem to be gravitating toward leftover centers others ignore, but the point guard crew after Round 5 doesn't provide much all-around statistical aid.
That's not necessarily a problem in a points league, where Ricky Rubio's shooting isn't a problem, but strange to say, this comes down to depth, and the fact I think the Wolves won't need Towns to score as much with Jimmy Butler in town.
Karl-Anthony Towns

Jim McCormick: Points formats equate production across each category.
This is especially true in ESPN standard scoring.
When entering any type of points format, you should pay close attention to the leaderboard in recent seasons.
Even in a league dominated by guard and wing play, in the real sense, the elite double-double bigs are still the dominant, league-swaying forces in this fantasy format.
This is because six players averaged at least 12 boards last season, while a dozen players cleared at least 10 per game.
There were 24 players with at least eight rebounds per game last season.
Conversely, six players averaged at least eight assists last season and only three were in double-digits per game.
Which brings us to Towns, the prodigious stretch big, who is basically on Tim Duncan's early career arc -- except with fewer blocks and far better shooting rates.
Towns was sixth in boards and 12th in points per game in just his second season.
In a volume-driven weekly points format that depends on availability as much as ability, it helps to note Towns has yet to miss a game and averaged a ridiculous 37 minutes last season (fifth in the NBA).
John Cregan: Again, upside.
In points, I'm looking for a top player most capable of delivering overwhelming volume.
Westbrook is the obvious choice, but adding George (and now Melo) is going to decrease his usage rate.
So it's about thinking about how far Westbrook might drop.
Whereas even with the addition of Butler, Towns is still years away from his peak.
Kyle Soppe: I want a high floor from as many big men as I can get in a points setting, so KAT leaps Westbrook when building a points league winner.
As a matter of fact, I've got Antetokounmpo as my second overall player, understanding that there is more of a premium placed on efficiency in this format.
Towns gives you the interior dominance (shot 64.1 percent from inside of eight feet last season) and rebounding that you look for from the anchor of your frontcourt, but his underrated touch (he shot 40.4 percent from outside of eight feet last season) is a skill that gives him the top floor/ceiling combination in a points league.
You love basketball.
You follow the NBA, root on your favorite team and watch games on TV.
Play Fantasy Basketball For Free An eventful summer in the NBA will make for an exciting 2017-18 fantasy hoops season.
Create or join an ESPN Fantasy Basketball league today!
Sign up for free!
And you still haven't played fantasy basketball?!
If that sounds a lot like you, this is the perfect season to get off the bench and into the game.
The NBA is more stacked with star talent than it has been in years, with reigning MVP Russell Westbrook leading the way, and there has never been a better time to jump right into the fantasy game.
Editor's Picks 2017-18 fantasy basketball draft kit Mock drafts, roto rankings, points rankings, projections, player profiles, draft strategies, DFS strategies -- we've got everything you need to dominate fantasy basketball from every angle.
Imagine the feeling of having Stephen Curry on your squad when he has one of his classic shooting performances with 10 3-pointers.
Or what it feels like when Giannis Antetokounmpo erupts for a triple-double and adds three blocks to lead your team to victory.
This stuff is a lot of fun!
In fact, many of those who've played fantasy basketball for a while can probably recall specific games certain players had for them in the last 10, 15 or even 20 years.
Don't get me started on Tom Gugliotta!
If you're not an expert, don't worry -- we have everything you need to know on how to enter a league and draft a winning team.
Even if you're a total beginner, you will still have the tools to experience the joy of fantasy basketball like millions do every year.
Make the league your own

Every fantasy basketball league is different.
While there are basic rules and settings that apply across the board (you will learn about those below), each league takes on its own identity based on settings like roster size, injury spots, stat categories and other specifics.
We encourage you to join or start a league that fits what you're looking for.
If you want to be more casual and set your lineups once a week, find a league that uses weekly lineup changes.
If you're a little bit more diehard with all this and want to be able to add and drop players and craft new lineups on a daily basis, that's the type of league you should enter.
The bottom line is to do what's fun for you.
Find a league that keeps you tuning in to watch your players every night.
With that in mind, we've put together ESPN Fantasy Basketball 101 to give you an overview of how to get started, how to prepare for your draft and how to play during the season.
Now it's time for you to sign up and join the fun!
Getting started

How to sign up on the ESPN Fantasy app

Were you invited to an ESPN Fantasy Basketball league?
Do you want to create your own as a League Manager?
We have complete instructions for you right here.
How to sign up online

Whether you were invited to join an already-existing league or want to create your own as a League Manager, you'll find everything you need to do so right here.
League settings

If you created your own league, you'll need to make sure all of your league's rules and settings -- including roster size, scoring, regular-season schedules and playoff schedules -- are to your liking.
We have all of the details of how to do that right here.
You've signed up, now what?
Check out your league and team pages

It's time to learn more about your league and team pages, so you know where everything is.
We've got you covered with a detailed tour right here.
Know your rules

This might seem incredibly basic, but even veteran fantasy basketball players often assume they know their league rules even when they don't.
The result of overlooking a rule can be costly, so be sure you know the rules before your draft.
Go to your fantasy football league page, click on League, then Settings.
Here, you'll be able to find all the rules that are in place for your league this season.
This includes roster construction, scoring, schedule, playoff structure and more.
Take the time to carefully go over every section.
To make sure you understand the thinking behind each rule, check out our League Settings overview.
Draft prep

A good draft will put you in position to have a successful season, and taking time to prepare beforehand is key.
That includes formulating strategies and printing out rankings that reflect your league's scoring format.
Don't worry, we have you covered with customized expert rankings and draft strategies in the ESPN Fantasy Basketball draft kit.
Autodraft prep

If you don't plan to take part in a live draft, that's OK. Our system will automatically draft for you.
Still, you have the option of guiding how our system will draft your team.
Go to your Team page and click "Edit Autopick Strategy."
Here, you can decide which player positions you'd like to pick in which parts of the draft and how many players at each position you want to select overall.
Mock drafts

Mock drafts are simply practice drafts that don't count for anything.
It's a terrific way to get used to the ESPN draft software, make sure you know how everything works and test out different strategies.
For example, that might mean drafting a point guard in the first round versus drafting a small forward in Round 1 and waiting on a point guard until the fourth round.
These practice drafts also let you see which players are going higher than expected and which are routinely slipping down a round or two (or more).
This is extremely useful knowledge that you can take with you in your real draft and use to your advantage, avoiding those "sliding" players until later rounds when you have a good idea that they will still be available.
For an overview of how everything in the ESPN draft room works, click on this link.
The draft

Draft day is the most exciting day of the season, because it's when your team goes from a plan to a reality.
It's when you finally get the chance to assemble the group of players you get to root for all season.
Of course, you can always add and drop players throughout the year, but the draft is still the most fundamental part of your roster and you want to make sure you don't miss on your top players.
If you have prepared for your draft by reading up on players and strategies, and by participating in several mock drafts, you're on the path to success.
Believe in your hunches and don't look back.
To make everything go as smoothly as possible, be sure to follow these handy rules.
The season is starting, let the fun begin!
Trading

In most leagues, there are at least a few managers who enjoy the art of the deal.
If you're one of those people, trading is going to be one of the most fun aspects of fantasy basketball.
When done well, it's a great opportunity to improve your roster while unloading someone you perhaps no longer want or need.
There are several important factors to keep in mind.
You must look at the roster of the team you're trading with and understand which, if any players, that manager might be willing to part with.
For example, it'd be unwise to make a trade offer for a point guard on a team that is battling injuries and down to one healthy point guard.
Also, while you may never want to send your best trade offer with your first proposal, be careful not to offer up too little.
That can be offensive to the other manager and can lead to that person not only declining your offer but ending all future trade talks with you.
In-season strategies

Beyond trading, there are other factors to consider during the season like how to manage your games played in roto leagues, how to approach head-to-head playoffs, and how best to work the waiver wire.
Check out the in-season strategies section of our draft kit.
Fantasy basketball etiquette

Every few years, no matter what type of league you're in, you'll run into someone who causes problems.
Sometimes it name-calling on the message board and being a bully.
Other times it is a constant stream of wild trade offers and questionable transactions.
Whether you are in a hyper-competitive league or just trying to have some casual fun, you want to avoid being this way or having others in your league who conduct themselves like this.
Generally speaking, that just means following the golden rule: Treat others the way you'd want to be treated in your league.
Following up our first mock draft, which was a 10-team roto-style format, we got together for a 10-team head-to-head points mock draft.
Of important note is that this draft took place before the trade that sent Carmelo Anthony to the Oklahoma City Thunder and Enes Kanter and Doug McDermott to the New York Knicks, and before Dwyane Wade was bought out by the Chicago Bulls.
The participants, in order of draft position, were Tom Carpenter, Eric Karabell, Leo Howell, Austin Tedesco, Seth Walder, Renee Miller, Joe Kaiser, Kyle Soppe, Jim McCormick and John Cregan.
Below, you'll find one takeaway from each manager, followed by the draft results.
Tom Carpenter: I had the good fortune of landing the No.
1 pick, but there simply isn't one obvious standout choice this season.
In a points format, I could easily make a case for about a half-dozen players, but it came down to Russell Westbrook versus Karl-Anthony Towns for me.
I gave Russ the edge, because even with Paul George at his side, I couldn't pass up his massive usage, especially when KAT had more teammates to share the ball with.
But now that Melo is in the mix in OKC, I would lean toward Towns, especially with standard ESPN points scoring, which gives extra weight to big-man stats.
Westbrook is still going to rack up huge numbers, but I think KAT's ceiling in this format may actually be higher now.
Play Fantasy Basketball For Free An eventful summer in the NBA will make for an exciting 2017-18 fantasy hoops season.
Create or join an ESPN Fantasy Basketball league today!
Sign up for free!
Eric Karabell: One of the things I find myself doing in these mock drafts is ending up with the utility slots filled with centers because I can't pass up the potential numbers.
It's not the most versatile strategy, of course, and in leagues we play out, I could have problems if it's a daily format or when injuries occur.
But the centers seem to be falling, and I can't help myself!
Take Joel Embiid, for example.
I was surprised he was there at pick No.
He won't play 70 games, but when he plays, he should be awesome.
A few rounds later Jonas Valanciunas was curiously available.
Then it was Marcin Gortat!
These guys should shoot well and provide the numbers I expect and need, but if swingman Jimmy Butler were to get hurt, my team might have a problem.
In future mocks, I want to see how it feels to build with 2s and 3s.
I imagine I won't enjoy it as much.
Leo Howell: Unlike our previous mock draft, which was a roto format, I felt a lot more free to make choices based on talent and general feel for a player and not be bound to categories and balance.
I found myself gravitating to guys who have solid roles and established production, because in a points format, talent + volume = victory.
From my first rounder (James Harden) to my last starter (Dwyane Wade), I feel like I have both elements in large amounts.
Normally in fantasy sports, I like young players and potential breakouts, but when I need to maximize counting stats and production, I don't want to take as many gambles when it comes to role or inexperience.
Editor's Picks 2017-18 fantasy basketball draft kit Mock drafts, roto rankings, points rankings, projections, player profiles, draft strategies, DFS strategies -- we've got everything you need to dominate fantasy basketball from every angle.
Melo to Thunder trade: Fantasy fallout How will the fantasy values of Melo, Russell Westbrook and Paul George change following the Knicks-Thunder trade?
Is Russ still worthy of a No.
1 overall pick?
Is Melo still top-50?
Where should you take PG-13?
2017-18 fantasy basketball points rankings In fantasy hoops leagues that use ESPN's standard points-league scoring, you'll find big men on the rise.
Do the likes of KAT and The Brow top Russ and Harden?
Does Steph even make the top 10?
Where do LeBron and Jokic land?
2 Related

Austin Tedesco: Myles Turner felt like a reaaach, but look at these dudes around him in the draft.
It's a sea of injury histories and/or cramped rosters with opportunity risks.
Hard pass.
So I'm banking on Turner upping his 3-point attempts per game from 1.4 to closer to 4.0 (let it fly, Myles!).
The rest of his game should naturally improve in Year 3.
He's already a good defender, and a bump in his RPG and BPG would make him a monstrous fantasy center with power forward flexibility.
If he doesn't average 20 and 10, I'm blaming Victor Oladipo and Kevin Pritchard.
The only thing he doesn't do is dish.
On this Pacers team, I hope it stays that way.
Seth Walder: I actually pondered DeAndre Jordan with my second-round pick but had a sneaking suspicion that the Clippers' center might last until the third round -- our interface's pre-draft rankings were based on rotisserie scoring, and therefore he was ranked 46th -- and decided to push my luck to test that theory.
It worked out.
By ESPN's projections, Jordan is forecasted to score the 16th-most points in this format.
Jim McCormick ranked him 16th in his points rankings.
And FiveThirtyEight's CARMELO projects him to have the 19th-highest WAR in 2017.
While CARMELO isn't forecasting with fantasy in mind, it's still nice to look to another projection system to confirm Jordan's overall value is in this range.
This early on, a roughly 10-spot value in a draft is about as good as you can hope for.
Jordan may have fallen because he doesn't score as many points as some of the other big men we often seek for points leagues, but that irrelevant at the rate he hoovers up boards.
Renee Miller: With a solid center, a best-is-yet-to-come power forward and Kevin Durant already on my team I was thrilled when Eric Bledsoe was available in the 4th round.
A triple-double threat when healthy, Bledsoe has averaged 32-34 minutes per game with around 18 points, 5 rebounds, 6 assists, and almost 2 steals per game during his four seasons in Phoenix.
The Suns play at a fast pace, which benefits point guards (and power forwards), specifically.
It doesn't hurt that he's pretty efficient (45 FG%, 81 FT%) either.
The knock on him is health and the risk of being benched for a younger model (Tyler Ulis).
However, he's healthy now, entering just his eighth season in the league (age 27), with a well-rounded skill set that shores up my team at the point.
Joe Kaiser: I'm already having buyer's remorse for taking Kawhi Leonard over LeBron James in a points league.
That shouldn't have happened, and if LeBron is there with the seventh pick you take him every time.
The lesson here is that it's easy to let yourself get swayed by efficiency, even when it doesn't matter as much, as is the case in a points league.
My strategy in the later rounds was to get scorers, and I was happy to get pretty good values in players like Dario Saric (67th), Tobias Harris (74th) and Lou Williams (107th).
Unfortunately, passing on a center in the middle rounds for the sake of selecting the best player available backfired, as I was left choosing from the likes of Pau Gasol, Mason Plumlee and Frank Kaminsky.
Once Gasol came off the board, I reluctantly took Plumlee as my one and only center.
If I had to do it over with the whole wait-for-a-center approach, I'd make sure to get someone like Clint Capela in the 60-70 range.
Kyle Soppe: My biggest takeaway from this draft was that I'm likely fading the masses this season.
We are in a golden era for point guards and that was reflected in this mock, as half of our league had a starting point (and McCormick had two) within the first 16 picks.
Yes, I understand how good these players are, but there is sneaky depth at the position, and by zigging when others are zagging, I love the value I got inside the top 100.
D'Angelo Russell and Dennis Smith Jr. are the two players I base this strategy on, as I truly believe they are the top values on the board, given their current ADP, and the ability to wait on filling my backcourt allows me to capitalize on any frontcourt player who falls as a result of the early run on guards.
Jim McCormick: Full disclosure: A traffic jam on the "Blue Route" (people from Philly understand) saw me autodraft the first six rounds of this draft.
Full disclosure: I actually like the build of this team, save for the far-too-early Isaiah Thomas selection.
With that Thomas pick, I'd instead prefer the volume rebounding potential of Kevin Love or Andre Drummond in a points format than the risk Thomas presents.
The auto portion of my roster should prove elite in 3-pointers, assists, steals and volume scoring but entirely thin in boards and blocks.
Given we don't need to worry about categorical balance as much in a points format, I spent the second half of the draft building on the strengths the first six rounds established -- resulting in a blend of 3-and-D perimeter specialists.
It's a bit of an atypical build, but with a bevy of top guards, there is at least an intriguing ceiling for this small-ball collective.
John Cregan: Following on the heels of my second-year breakouts column, I wanted to use this draft to highlight where I'd pick some of my favorite sophomores.
I selected Marquese Chriss and Willy Hernangomez in the eighth round, Malcolm Brogdon in the 10th, and Buddy Hield in the 12th (I had the wraparound pick).
Of the four, Chriss has the most upside, while Brogdon is the safest pick.
71st may feel like a reach for Hernangomez, but with Joakim Noah out the first month of the season, Hernangomez has a huge opportunity to dramatically increase his minutes per game for the duration.
If the standings did not change, the Yankees would face the Minnesota Twins, although the Los Angeles Angels are a threat to overtake the Twins for the second wild-card spot in the A.L.
We just felt it was probably in our best interests to do that, Girardi said of the decision to start Severino on Wednesday, and to make sure that if we were in the wild-card game that he was prepared and had the right rest.
But we will still play to win this division.
Winning the pennant would spare them the randomness of a single-game playoff and provide an extra three days rest before a five-game divisional series.
If the A.L.
East race indeed comes down to the final day of the regular season, the Yankees might be forced to depend upon Jordan Montgomery against the Toronto Blue Jays on Sunday.
Montgomery started and won Tuesdays game.
And if the Yankees and Red Sox finish up in a tie, they would play a one-game playoff to determine the division winner  a play-in before the play-in  on Monday.
That might mean having to use Severino a day earlier than planned.
Thats too complicated to think about right now, Girardi said.
Its like a movie, right?
Montgomery, who surprisingly made the team as its fifth starter out of spring training, has had a creditable rookie season and pitched well Tuesday night, working six innings while allowing six hits and one run.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Yankees scored four of their runs in the second inning, largely because of the wildness of Rays starter Blake Snell, who walked in two runs and wild-pitched another home after allowing a leadoff home run to Starlin Castro.
They added two more runs in the eighth inning on a run-scoring bloop single by Gary Sanchez and an infield hit by Matt Holliday.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But the result might have been different had it not been for the Yankees Aaron Hicks, in his first game back after missing 20 games with an oblique strain, leaping high over the center-field wall to pull back what would have been a grand slam for Rays catcher Wilson Ramos in the first inning.
Hicks, who walked in each of his first three plate appearances, also drew one of the bases-loaded walks in the second inning.
I thought he hit it pretty well, but it just kinda died for me and gave me a great opportunity, Hicks said.
Montgomery, who hugged Hicks in the dugout after the inning, agreed.
I told him, Thanks for saving me, Montgomery said.
It earned high praise from Girardi as well.
Thats the difference in the game right there, he said.
It saved the day for us.
Montgomery settled down after the first inning, allowing just four more singles and striking out five hitters.
But in his first major league season, Montgomery has thrown 150 innings, nearly 11 more than he had in either of his three previous minor league seasons.
He also threw eight more innings in two minor league starts this season.
And fatigue may be becoming an issue.
Tuesdays was the eighth consecutive start in which Montgomery has gone six innings or less; in four of them, he failed to finish five.
I think for a young man who was not necessarily in the rotation plans when spring training started, I think hes pitched really well and won some really big games for us, Girardi said before the game.
I think hes grown a lot as a player and I think hes learned a lot and I think hes had a good year.
Girardi also said his plan was to start Montgomery on Sunday as a way to keep him sharp, with an eye toward possibly using him out of the bullpen in the postseason.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Asked if Montgomery might even get a postseason start if the Yankees go deep enough into October  Severino, Sonny Gray, Masahiro Tanaka and C. C. Sabathia appear to be guaranteed  Girardi said, Those decisions havent been made in what were going to do, but obviously he has pitched really well and he will be considered.
But before that happens, Montgomery will pitch once more, on Sunday, in what might wind up being the most important game of an improbable Yankees regular season.
Its nice, Montgomery said.
Theres no pressure, just another game.
Ill just go out there and do what I do.
When youve coached Kobe Bryant, worked with Phil Jackson, it goes a long ways, Person said to the federal informant on a recorded telephone call, according to the complaint.
Photo

Recorded conversations, videotapes and evidence of Persons cash payments  as well as complaints that outlined allegations of similar transgressions by three other assistant coaches at prominent programs  laid bare the worst-kept secret in college athletics: Student-athletes (the N.C.A.A.s preferred term) have been bought and sold in pursuit of championship glory and a healthy percentage of their future earnings.
Past scandals in college basketball have tarnished iconic coaches like Jerry Tarkanian and Rick Pitino and storied programs like the University of Kentucky, to name a small fraction.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Until Tuesday, criminal charges were almost unheard-of.
In the past, it was up to journalists to act on tips from disgruntled players or agents to bring the scandals to light.
Then the N.C.A.A., which has never had enough resources to police all of its members, would investigate and mete out punishment.
In recent years, many colleges under suspicion have pre-empted that process.
They have hired outside law firms (often stocked with former N.C.A.A.
employees) to investigate accusations and, if necessary, to enter into a plea negotiation with the N.C.A.A., preferably one that does not turn off the spigot of athletic revenues.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Person and the other coaches implicated in the federal complaints will need a different kind of lawyer  the criminal variety.
Oklahoma States Lamont Evans, Arizonas Emanuel Richardson and the University of Southern Californias Tony Bland were accused of bribery for accepting payments to steer players to specific agents.
The complaints might pressure these coaches to cooperate with the government, perhaps resulting in even more coaches facing criminal charges.
In Persons case, the allegations suggest a scheme born out of convenience and a simple calculus.
Rashan Michel, an Atlanta-based tailor of bespoke suits for a clientele of professional athletes, was named as a co-defendant.
Michel, the complaint said, promised the financial adviser that he could deliver college basketball coaches because he made their suits and had access to the locker room and the kids.
Besides, Michel told the adviser in salty language, N.B.A.
players make way more than football guys and 10 of them over the next five years would generate enough revenue that he and the adviser would be able to sit back and do absolutely nothing.
Person passed on about $18,500 to the families of two athletes in recorded meetings where warnings about secrecy were paramount, according to the complaint.
But he was not above displaying greed.
He asked the informant to cut Michel out of the financial loop, the complaint said, and tried to double dip with another unnamed financial adviser, who declined to enter a pay-for-play agreement.
In a wry footnote, the F.B.I.
agent who prepared the affidavit noted that Person had not done his due diligence on the financial adviser/informant.
If Person had done a simple internet search, for example, he would have found that the financial adviser was facing securities fraud allegations leveled by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Person apparently was oblivious.
He vouched for the informant to a parent, saying that the informant was his personal financial adviser and Barkleys, as well.
And Person demonstrated how he molded young men.
Your personality and the way you do things cant change, Person instructed a player.
Dont flaunt the stuff you get and, you know, dont change the way you speak to people  thats very important, too, and character, which we talk about all the time.
Even players admit to feeling conflicted, with limits on hitting extending to practices where they practice  hitting.
I miss some of the old ways, Giants center Weston Richburg said.
Having someone banging against your pads in practice does help you prepare for the amped up intensity of a game.
Photo

Are you ready?
Because in a game, everyone is moving at full speed and pads are popping.
But at the same time, current players look at retirees from the game and see how many of them are hobbled or mentally infirm.
Players today began youth or high school football before all the new rules, penalties and restrictions were enacted.
They grew up, as many fans did, with an almost primal attraction to footballs aggression.
The players long to be safer; several have told me of the desire to one day play with their grandchildren.
But they also want to play football.
Its a game where you hit people, the Pro Bowl linebacker Jon Beason said two years ago.
You cant get away from that and I dont want to.
The hitting in practice, for instance, you weed out a lot of guys.
You know whos really down for the cause.
Its essential.
But theyve taken that away.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It is true that N.F.L.
teams no longer do blocking and tackling in the vast majority of practices.
A modern N.F.L.
practice is more like a glorified game of touch football.
No one gets knocked around.
If someone is on the ground, he probably tripped.
Behind the lack of hard contact, is a cold, hard business decision.
Coaches and league executives are worried about injuries to players whom they pay on average about $2 million annually.
The impetus for change was new awareness about the dangers of concussions, head trauma and injuries of all kinds in a bruising game, along with the research that showed that more injuries occur in practice than games.
And again, at the major college and N.F.L.
level, protecting the players also meant protecting the bottom line.
When a star like Tom Brady of the New England Patriots was seriously injured and missed the 2008 season  on a hit that would now be ruled illegal  television ratings slipped, though there may have been other contributing factors behind that.
Photo

It might be telling that N.F.L.
players who played both before and after the new contact restrictions were established tend to welcome them.
The recently retired Giants guard Chris Snee, who remembers when linemen greeted opponents with a meaty slap on the head as plays began, said he appreciated the added protection.
Rules against shots to the head made a lot of sense to me, said Snee, a four-time Pro Bowl selection.
Snee also insisted, however, that the football field remains no place for the meek.
Guys are bigger and faster and just as physical, he said.
Its still tough out there, Im sure of that.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Other players who remember when there were virtually no safeguards against blindside and helmet-to-helmet hits bristled at the suggestion that the N.F.L.
had somehow gone soft.
Joe Theismann, the former Washington Redskins quarterback whose leg was gruesomely broken during a nationally televised game in 1985, called the sport as violent as its ever been.
Trust me, these guys hit just as hard, Theismann said Tuesday.
If you really watch the hits up close, you would not say the game is getting soft.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Which may be entirely the point.
On the sideline, where I have watched plenty of games, the speed and size of the mammoth players, the ferocity of the collisions, the constant crack of pads pounding pads, usually leaves the uninitiated awe-struck but also a little shaken.
Ive taken people down to the field, escorted them to within inches of the playing field and watched.
After a play or two, they usually start retreating to a safer distance  5 or 10 yards from the maelstrom.
It does not make them soft.
If anything, it seems to give them an informed understanding of what it takes to play professional football.
Im not going to do it again next week, he said.
I didnt want to do it this week.
This all had to do with President Trumps comments.
Thats the only reason that we did that.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Kenneth Shropshire, who runs the Global Sport Institute at Arizona State University, is the author of the book In Black and White: Race and Sports in America.
He has some interesting thoughts on the effectiveness of protest movements, and he worries that the N.F.L.
movement might be fleeting.
To effect real change, Mr. Shropshire told me, the demonstrations cant disappear in a flash.
But their staying power depends on the reason the players and owners were spurred to action.
At the player level, it really was someone saying on the street, Yo mama, he said.
And at the basest level, nobody can talk about your mother without some retribution.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
At the owner level, he said, any continued displays of solidarity will depend how much of the protest stemmed from owners anger that the president had told them how to run their businesses.
Their thinking might be, How dare this person get into my business?
he said.
So itll be interesting if some owner signs Kaepernick now, just to show that Trump cant engage in their business.
The real problem with players who focus solely on Mr. Trumps comments is that he will have succeeded in steering attention away from the original issues  racism and police brutality.
On Sunday, everyone seemed to be consumed by a different matter: whether it is appropriate to kneel during the anthem.
Vernon Davis, a Redskins tight end, said he had an idea for how to get beyond the bickering and properly engage on the real issues: Gather top players from each of the professional leagues and have them meet with Mr. Trump at the White House.
We have some of the largest platforms there is, he said.
Were huge influences when it comes to people.
He added: Why not just come together and make it right?
Because there is an issue, there is a problem, for sure.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Davis said he would gladly meet with Mr. Trump, but only at the right time, which he said would be outside of football season.
So Mr. Davis, at least, has put everything on hold until February.
By then, the opportunity might be gone.
Richard Lapchick, the director of the Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sport, said that if a strong core of players would be willing to start  or continue  the conversation about racial equality and justice in their communities, the movement could grow quickly.
Sunday was the most important sports day since Ali decided not to fight in Vietnam, Mr. Lapchick said.
Yes, I think it was that big.
What we dont do in America is talk about these issues openly, but now we could easily create a forum where athletes and city leaders and front offices and police can discuss racial justice.
Right now we dont have any of that kind of unity in our communities.
Redskins cornerback Josh Norman said he would be up for that kind of outreach.
After Sundays game, he stood at his locker long after every other player left the room and talked about President Trump and about freedom and how something in this country has to change.
He said he was so sickened and disturbed by the presidents insults that he couldnt stop thinking about his place in the world, and that the game came secondary.
What about next weekends game?
For now, Mr. Norman said, he was thinking about how to make things better and exercising his right to be free.
It is here where the architects built Liberty National Golf Club, an engineering marvel and one of the most expensive golf courses ever built.
The property that once oozed with chemical sludge and toxic waste this week will host to the Presidents Cup, the biennial competition between 12-man teams from the United States and the rest of the world outside of Europe.
Reclaiming the land was no easy task.
More than 90 routings were sketched before the permits were approved.
By that time, many of the original parties had lost interest, moved on to other jobs, or died.
Kite and Cupp were left to resurrect the project by finding a new owner.
It had the location and these incredible views so all you had to do was find somebody with really deep pockets that would dream with you, Kite said.
In stepped Paul Fireman, who had turned Reebok into one of the biggest athletic-shoe companies in the world.
When he first saw the property, Fireman decided within five minutes to buy it.
But it took several more years to manage the environmental obstacles, negotiate with state agencies and acquire the remaining land.
Fireman, chairman of Fireman Capital Partners, said it took an act of Congress to seal a deal to buy 40 acres from the adjacent Army reserve base.
When construction started, plastic covered the contaminated area of the property.
More than 3 million cubic feet of soil and sand were brought in to create a protective cap.
Liberty National was Firemans Fields of Dreams.
Its incredible to think that my grandparents came through here and the first thing they saw was this land, he told Fortune in 2005.
And today I am building this golf course.
Thats the American dream.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

These days, Fireman is less sanguine, describing it as an ambitious project, maybe a little foolhardy, he said.
Photo

To avoid the contaminated ground water, even the lakes and streams are built above the protective cap.
Subterranean mechanical devices continue to test the groundwater.
About 5,000 fully grown transplanted pin oaks, golden maples and flowering pears were planted.
It is as far away from the minimalist golf courses that are in vogue right now as you can get, Kite said.
But it took a piece of property that was a liability to the state of New Jersey and turned it into a real asset.
Liberty National opened on July 4, 2006, almost 14 years after Kites first visit.
Including the construction of a 65,000-square-foot glass-and-steel clubhouse modeled after the Sydney Opera House, the course cost north of $300 million, said Firemans son, Dan, managing partner of Fireman Capital Partners.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Paul Fireman likes to stroll on the veranda outside the library overhanging the 18th green for the view of the Manhattan skyline.
Cupp, who died last year at 76, considered Liberty National his crowning achievement, and marveled at how the Statue of Liberty was a mere 2,000 yards from one of the greens.
Not everyone shared Cupps enthusiasm for Liberty National.
The course hosted the Barclays, a FedEx Cup playoff event, in 2009, and the pros criticized the layout.
Who designed it?
Robert Allenby said.
Was it his first?
Tiger Woods reportedly joked to his pro-am group that Kite, who wore thick glasses during his prime, must have designed the course before he had Lasik eye surgery.
If that wasnt bad enough, a 2012 Golf World survey asked pros to assess 52 courses that hosted Tour events, and Liberty National finished last.
They should have left it as a dump, one anonymous pro said.
Kite admitted he was not surprised by the criticism.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We are PGA pros, he said.
You have to be able to bitch a little bit.
If you cant do it, you cant get your Tour card.
Fireman always envisioned hosting one of golfs premier events.
The negative reviews were damaging, but the visual splendor won out.
The Tour came to us and said, Look, the good news is we want to come back.
The bad news is youre going to have to make some changes, and I said, Hey, thats within our control,  Dan Fireman said.
Completed in 2011, the redesign consisted of 74 changes, including three greens being rebuilt to lessen the severity of the slopes.
The course hosted the Barclays again in 2013, but the Australian pro Geoff Ogilvy said if the 2009 setup was too severe, the one in 2013 was a cupcake.
Still, count Ogilvy, a vice captain for the International team at the Presidents Cup, among the most vociferous supporters of Liberty National as a match-play venue.
Im not putting it in my top-20 golf courses, and I dont think anybody is, but for where it is, the setting, and what they had to do, its just a feat of engineering, he said.
I mean, is there a better venue for a tournament like this?
It would be hard to imagine one, wouldnt it?
Last summer, at the Rio Games, the Ethiopian marathoner Feyisa Lilesa crossed his arms over his head at the finish line to protest Ethiopias treatment of his ethnic group, the Oromo people.
He has been in exile since.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
At the Olympic Games themselves, there is a prohibition on all forms of demonstration, political or otherwise, said Scott Blackmun, chief executive of the United States Olympic Committee, referring to a rule in the Olympic Charter.
We have a little bit different state of play when it comes to the Olympic Games.
But we certainly recognize the importance of athletes being able to express themselves.
The American figure skater Adam Rippon is among the more outspoken Olympic hopefuls in terms of politics, commonly sharing his views on Instagram and Twitter.
Over the weekend, after President Trump said Stephen Curry and the Golden State Warriors were no longer invited to the White House, Rippon retweeted a statement from the Warriors, calling the team champions on and off the court.
As athletes, we have a very unique opportunity to speak up about things that we believe in and to be that voice for people who are not being heard, Rippon said.
When asked if he would make some kind of statement at the Olympics if he makes the podium, he hesitated.
I hope by the time the Olympics comes around the atmosphere and tensions of the political climate are different, he said, adding that he would support teammates should they express their views.
Elana Meyers Taylor, a two-time Olympic bobsledder, said athletes were pushing for social change more than ever before.
I think the hardest thing is that all of us would love to just stick to sports  but if you want us to be role models to kids then you need to stand for more than just sports.
Photo

At the end of the day, she added, the only time we hear the national anthem is when we win a gold medal.
So we have to get to the Olympics, then win a gold medal and then see what kind of social impact we can have there.
While some athletes left open the possibility of making a political statement at the Winter Games, others said it was out of the question.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

You wont see me taking a knee at the national anthem, especially at an event like the Olympics, said Troy Terry, a hockey player hoping to make the United States team for Pyeongchang.
For these men, bribing coaches was a business investment, Joon H. Kim, the acting United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, said while announcing federal bribery, fraud and other corruption charges.
They knew corrupt coaches, in return for bribes, would pressure the players to use their services.
They also knew that if and when those young players turned pro, that would mean big bucks for them.
This vision of what Kim called the dark underbelly of college basketball led to the arrests of nearly a dozen people, including four Division I assistant coaches and the global marketing director for Adidas basketball.
Kim said the investigation was continuing, and the disclosures made on Tuesday seemed to promise further revelations of wrongdoing that could upend one of the countrys most popular sports, whose annual tournament provides the N.C.A.A.
with the vast majority of its income.
Across three complaints, two broad schemes were alleged.
One involved bribing four assistant coaches  at Arizona, Auburn, Oklahoma State and Southern California, all programs in the so-called Power 5 conferences of college sports  to persuade players to send business to certain financial advisers once they turned professional.
The other involved efforts to secretly funnel money from Adidas to three players and their families in exchange for the players commitments to play at two Adidas-sponsored college programs and to later sign sponsorship deals with the company once they turned pro.
The latter complaint said a senior Adidas executive, Jim Gatto, was in on an agreement to pay about $100,000 to the family of Player-10, a heavily recruited high school standout, to steer him to a particular college.
While neither the player nor the university was named, descriptions of the institution matched the University of Louisville, which this summer signed a 10-year, $160 million apparel contract with Adidas.
Louisvilles mens basketball program is currently on N.C.A.A.
probation over a scandal in which prostitutes were used to entice recruits in on-campus housing (the university is appealing some of those penalties, which were announced in June).
Adidas said in a statement: Today, we became aware that federal investigators arrested an Adidas employee.
We are learning more about the situation.
Were unaware of any misconduct and will fully cooperate with authorities to understand more.
Louisvilles interim president, Gregory C. Postel, confirmed his universitys involvement in the investigation.
While we are just learning about this information, Postel said in a statement, this is a serious concern that goes to the heart of our athletic department and the university.
He added that Louisville was committed to ethical behavior and adherence to N.C.A.A.
rules.
Payments were discussed for other players families as well, the complaint says, including one who had not yet begun his junior year of high school and another who was to receive $150,000 to enroll at a college whose description matches the University of Miami, another Adidas-sponsored college.
Miami said in a statement that it, too, would cooperate with investigators if asked.
The coach of an Adidas-sponsored grass-roots team in Florida  a pre-college squad outside of the high school structure  was among those charged.
Photo

In the first scheme, one complaint charged that Chuck Person, the associate head coach at Auburn, abused his coaching position to solicit and obtain bribes from a financial adviser and business manager for professional athletes.
In return, he agreed to direct certain players from his program to the adviser when the players entered the N.B.A.
Person accepted a total of $91,500 in the case, the complaint said, and is accused of passing on about $18,500 to the families of two athletes.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Kim emphasized the trust that young players had put in their coaches and noted that Person had boasted of one player: He listens to one person  that is me.
The other complaint charged the other three assistant coaches with solicitation of bribery for accepting payments to steer players.
The coaches named are Lamont Evans, an assistant at Oklahoma State and a former assistant at South Carolina; Emanuel Richardson, an assistant at Arizona; and Tony Bland, an assistant at U.S.C.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
All three, and Person, have been suspended, their programs announced Tuesday in separate statements.
The N.C.A.A.
president, Mark Emmert, was caught off guard by Tuesday mornings announcement but pledged his organizations support.
Coaches hold a unique position of trust with student-athletes and their families and these bribery allegations, if true, suggest an extraordinary and despicable breach of that trust, Emmert said.
Tuesdays revelations all but ensured a renewed debate about two rules central to college basketball.
One is the N.C.A.A.s longstanding restrictions on compensation, a central part of college sports that has been under attack in recent years by polemicists, antitrust lawsuits and even some players.
The other is the so-called one-and-done rule, agreed to jointly by the N.B.A.
and its players union, which generally prohibits players from entering the league before they have turned 19 or until a year after they graduate from high school.
Before the rules implementation, the best high school basketball players in each class had the option of simply entering the N.B.A.
and receiving a salary, as well as lucrative endorsement deals, and above all not needing to worry themselves over N.C.A.A.
rules.
Those restrictions, combined with the increasing pressure to rack up wins fueled by billion-dollar television deals, created an incentive, some said, for coaches to break the rules to secure top talent.
In that environment, said a person familiar with top-level college basketball, who was granted anonymity to discuss rule-breaking, $100,000 for a five-star prospect was a pretty good investment.
The cases were brought with the aid of a cooperating witness against whom the Securities and Exchange Commission had brought securities charges, including misusing professional athletes funds.
Two undercover F.B.I.
agents posing as financial advisers were also involved.
The witness was Martin Blazer, a former financial adviser based in Pittsburgh, the United States attorneys office said.
The investigation used judicially approved wiretaps, and began in 2015.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The complaints did not implicate any head coaches, perhaps for reasons explained by one of the defendants in an audio recording of a secret meeting.
According to a transcript of comments by the defendant, an agent named Christian Dawkins, the path to securing commitments from college athletes went through assistant coaches, because head coaches aint willing to take bribes,  cause theyre making too much money.
And its too risky.
Illegal inducements and benefits to athletes come as no surprise to followers of college sports, and the N.C.A.A.
has long struggled to police rules violations at its member universities.
Many times, the violations have been exposed in vivid detail: department store discounts for Florida State football players; cash payments to Michigans so-called Fab Five; trades of tattoos for autographs at Ohio State.
Louisville was punished for the prostitute scandal in June, when the N.C.A.A.
placed the Cardinals on probation, suspended Coach Rick Pitino for five games and ordered the university to forfeit what could be dozens of games  potentially including the Cardinals 2013 national championship.
Those sanctions were announced June 15  less than two weeks, Tuesdays complaint claimed, after a Louisville coach is accused of taking part in the plan to funnel $100,000 to the all-American recruit.
The complaints announced Tuesday also included tantalizing clues indicating that what was alleged is merely the tip of the iceberg.
Dawkins, for example, urged that the payment to a players family be increased because one of Adidass rivals was coming in with a higher number.
I would suggest to you that they havent been learned at all, Mr. Weinberg said in an interview on Wednesday.
I dont have a simple answer to it.
Australian athletes are paying close attention to the fierce conflict that Donald Trump has stirred up by repeatedly criticizing football players taking a knee and denying N.B.A.
champions an invitation to the White House.
Though the two countries histories are very different, they note, there are enough similarities when it comes to race and the backlash against protest for the situation in the U.S. to reignite this countrys own debate about sport, race and protest.
The way that people in the positions of leadership respond says a lot, said Heritier Lumumba, a former Australian Football League player who has spoken out frequently about racism in Australian football.
Did you see Gregg Popovich speak?
he said, referring to the San Antonio Spurs coachs comments earlier this week.
To me, that should be the norm.
In Australia, sport and progressive issues have long been intertwined.
That has regularly played out in the A.F.L., where an on-field protest by Aboriginal player Nicky Winmar led to the league instituting a code of conduct prohibiting racial vilification in the 90s.
Last week, that league again rocked political waters when it temporarily changed the three-lettered logo at its headquarters to YES  indicating support for same-sex marriage in an ongoing government survey of Australians.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And in other sports too, the discussion in the U.S. is rippling through.
On Monday, much-maligned Australian tennis player Nick Kygrios briefly took a knee before a match against Roger Federer.
He later brushed off suggestions that it had any link to N.F.L.
protests, and his agent said it was a tribute to Kygrios late grandparents.
But others noted that Kygrios had previously worn an anti-Trump T-shirt and that his agent also represents Mr. Kaepernick.
Other Australian athletes are following the U.S. debate quietly  like cricketer Peter Siddle, who liked LeBron James tweet directed at Mr. Trump, and another showing N.F.L.
players taking a knee.
But the story of Peter Norman, and its long-term impact, remains one of the countrys most discussed examples of athletes intersecting with social causes.
After winning the 200-meter silver medal, Norman was approached by the 1st and 3rd-placed finishers, African-Americans Tommie Smith and John Carlos.
The pair asked Norman if he believed in human rights, and told him that they would be staging a protest.
Ill stand with you, Norman responded.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The photograph of the three men on the Olympic podium  Smith and Carlos raising fists to the sky; Norman bowing his head solemnly  is one of the lasting sporting images of the 20th century.
Mr. Weinberg, his coach, said Peter had established a connection with them  they were going through more than many of us could understand at the time.
The punishment for the two Americans was swift: They were banned from further competition and removed from the Olympic Village.
For Norman, though, the consequences were more insidious.
He was made a pariah by Australian media and reprimanded by the head of the Australian Olympic Committee.
The A.O.C.
did not send him to the 1972 Olympics, effectively ending his athletics career (his silver-medal-winning 200-metre time is still an Australian record).
Decades later, he did not receive an invitation to the Sydney 2000 Olympics  his story scrubbed from the countrys sporting history.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

When Norman died in 2006, Smith and Carlos flew to Melbourne to be his pallbearers.
It was only six years later that Australias parliament passed a motion to formally apologize to Norman, and to recognize the powerful role his actions played.
Its a great Australian story that deserves to be better known, said Andrew Leigh, the Australian minister who led the motion.
It struck me as what Barack Obama might like to call a teachable moment.
Mr. Weinberg, now 90, still ponders how and why Norman was so shunned upon his return to Australia.
He cites Norman as an example of how outspoken sporting figures, however towering they may seem, can face a lifetime of negative consequences for their political actions, often from forces they cannot see.
I think that Peter was badly treated by powers that be, and Im unable to name them, Mr. Weinberg said.
I dont know who they were.
As for whether politics has a place in sports, Mr. Weinberg said the question itself is irrelevant.
Nobody can seem to keep it out, he said.
This is Bellinis signature move, the trademark that has made him a sensation on YouTube and Instagram and has turned a local radio D.J.
into a celebrity not just in his native Naples but much further beyond.
Every club in Italy has a stadium announcer  a job the Italians call lo speaker  but only Napoli has Daniele Bellini, the man everyone in this city knows as Decibel.
For the last seven years, Bellini, 36, has been employed as Napolis speaker.
He inherited the role by chance.
The previous incumbent was unable to attend a game in 2010 against the clubs bitter northern rival Juventus.
Bellini was working as a D.J.
at a local radio station, Radio Marte  known now as Radio Kiss Kiss  that covered Napolis games.
I was about 10th in line for the job, he said.
But a couple of people didnt want to do it, a couple of others couldnt do it that weekend, so eventually they said to me, Right, you do it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Napoli won that day, and Bellini was told to return the next week.
You have to remember that were very superstitious people in Naples, he said.
It stayed like that for a year, maybe two: it was a game-by-game thing.
I was always afraid that we would lose and I would be told that was it, but we won a lot of games that year.
Bellini was given no instructions of note when he took the job.
At most clubs, the speaker is not a position given a vast amount of thought: They read out safety and security messages  telling people not to use lasers, not to light flares, that sort of thing  announce the lineups, confirm substitutions, name goal scorers.
They are the basics, Bellini said.
Everything else is just spectacle, just show.
The show, though, is where Bellini excels.
San Paolo has long been one of the most intimidating stadiums in Europe.
Though Napoli overhauled the dressing rooms before the visit of Real Madrid in the Champions League last year  to try to make the stadium seem a little less outdated  it remains a crumbling, menacing place, its hostility a badge of honor.
Maurizio Sarri, the Napoli manager, has described San Paolo as a hell for visiting teams.
Zinedine Zidane found it beautiful, but never easy.
Yaya Tour, the Manchester City and Ivory Coast midfielder, once said that his visit there was the only time my legs have shaken before a game.
Bellini  a fan himself  did not set out to change that.
I am not a protagonist, he said.
The fans are the protagonists.
Instead, he said, he did what he could to harness their energy, to encourage it.
Most notably, when a player scored, Bellini would announce their first name five times, the fans responding with the surname.
(He has a curious blind spot for the names of opposition players: there is a tendency for the occasional Alessandro to be named as Angelo, or a Pietro to become Paolo.
Not very convincingly, he says it is not deliberate.)
It all changed with Edinson Cavani, he said.
Cavani, the Uruguayan striker now with Paris Saint-Germain, spent three prolific years in Naples, scoring 104 goals in 138 games.
It was a record that Bellini thought warranted special status.
He wore No.
7, he said.
So I thought one day I would say his name seven times.
That was the start.
Soon, that became a tradition: every Cavani goal would be greeted by Bellinis bellowing his name out seven times, the crowd following on, louder and louder.
Bellini, an early adopter of both Facebook and Instagram, uploaded the videos to YouTube.
They attracted hundreds of thousands of views.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

His greatest hit, though, came in 2013.
When another prolific striker, the Argentine Gonzalo Higuan, scored in a Champions League game against Borussia Dortmund, Bellini announced his name nine times, another tribute to his jersey number.
The footage went viral.
I went on holiday to Jamaica a couple of years ago, Bellini said.
I was in Trenchtown, where Bob Marley was born, with a guide.
We looked in a bar, and there were some kids watching a Premier League game.
One of them turned around, looked at me, and his face dropped.
Photo

 Its you, he said.
Hey, man, Gonzalo!
Gonzalo!
Higuan!
Higuan!
I dont know how theyd seen the film  its a bad area, they had old phones, no connection  and they did not know where Naples was, or even Italy.
But they had seen it, in Trenchtown, in Jamaica.
Bellini brushes off the idea that he is anything but a tiny part of what makes the San Paolo special.
He is not entirely uncomfortable with being seen as a celebrity: he attends games wearing a hat with his name stenciled on it, and in a Napoli polo shirt; he grins when he is mobbed by fans.
But he said that he still gets nervous, still fears making a mistake, still grows quiet as he nears the stadium, a little transformation that allows him to become his public persona.
I do not have time to be emotional, he said.
Quite often, I will go home and watch the games back on television, because I feel I havent really seen them.
Just as a photographer sees things differently through the lens of a camera, I see them differently when I have a microphone.
I have to work out who scored, if there was a deflection, if it was an own goal, and do it all in three seconds, and I have to get it right.
It is his job, and it is one he takes seriously.
Thanks to Higuan, so do the players.
Last summer, Bellini joined Napoli on its preseason retreat in Dimaro, high in the Dolomites.
On the plane back, he sat next to Arkadiusz Milik, a Polish striker signed to replace Higuan.
Together with Miliks agent, they spent an hour working out how best to announce his name when he scored.
Photo

They take an interest, Bellini said of the players.
They know their names will be shouted to the stadium, so it is logical they want to make sure it is done the best way.
I speak to all the new players to find out how they want me to do it.
Not every name has the natural rhythm of Cavani or Higuan, but Bellini finds a way to make it work.
Though he acknowledges a name like Mertens does not scan quite so well, it has not stopped him trying.
The thornier issue is bellowing his name as many times as his squad number dictates: Mertens wears 14.
I have got to 11, Bellini said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He knows there will always be some who do not like what you do, but he accepts that he is now, both internally and externally, part of the clubs identity: He functions as a social fixer for many of the players, seen by them as a friend, and is a tradition for fans on matchday.
Indeed, so ingrained is he in the Napoli experience that he performed as a D.J.
at the wedding of Jorginho, a Brazilian midfielder, last summer.
The year before that, he was in the congregation when Mertens married.
Photo

Travis Taijeron singled home the winning run with one out in the bottom of the ninth inning and the Mets rallied late to beat the Atlanta Braves, 4-3, at Citi Field.
The Mets were stymied by the 42-year-old knuckleballer R. A. Dickey much of the night and trailed, 3-0, in the seventh before he surrendered a two-run homer to Kevin Plawecki.
Asdrubal Cabrera tied the score with a sacrifice fly in the eighth.
Minter (0-1) allowed a leadoff single in the ninth to Plawecki, who was replaced by pinch-runner Juan Lagares.
Dominic Smith walked but Minter struck out Amed Rosario, who failed to bunt the runners over.
Taijeron, who struck out his previous two times up, hit a line drive over the head of left fielder Jace Peterson to win the game.
Jeurys Familia (2-2) pitched a scoreless ninth inning to gain the victory.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Dickey, who won the National Leagues Cy Young Award with the Mets in 2012, dominated his former team for six innings and retired 13 straight before allowing a single to Brandon Nimmo in the seventh.
Plawecki followed with his homer to left field.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Nori Aoki walked with one out in the eighth, and a throwing error by third baseman Johan Camargo left runners at second and third.
Cabreras sacrifice fly off reliever Sam Freeman was caught by a diving Ender Inciarte, preventing the go-ahead run from scoring.
Inciarte extended his career-high total to 200 hits when he doubled in the first inning and scored on Nick Markakiss double.
The Braves added two more runs off starter Rafael Montero in the second on an R.B.I.
double by Peterson and a two-out single by Ozzie Albies.
Photo

Sylvia Fowles grabbed a W.N.B.A.
finals-record 17 rebounds and scored 13 points to lead the Minnesota Lynx to a 70-68 victory over the Los Angeles Sparks in Game 2 on Tuesday night in Minneapolis, evening the series at one game apiece.
Fowles broke Taj McWilliams-Franklins record of 16 for Connecticut in 2005.
Lindsay Whalen scored 14 points, Rebekkah Brunson had 12 and the Lynx held the defending champions to 38.7 percent shooting while bouncing back from a last-second loss in Game 1.
Candace Parker had 17 points, six assists and five rebounds for the Sparks, who had the ball and a chance to tie or take the lead with 13.1 seconds to play.
But Chelsea Gray lost the handle on her dribble for a turnover, one of two big ones by Los Angeles in the final 14 seconds.
Game 3 of the best-of-five series is Friday night in Los Angeles.
Gray scored 15 points and Nneka Ogwumike had 11 points and 13 rebounds for Los Angeles.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Fowles, this seasons M.V.P., dominated the glass a game after the Lynx did not grab a single rebound in the first quarter of their series-opening loss.
Photo

DORTMUND, Germany  A brace from Cristiano Ronaldo helped Real Madrid, the two-time defending champion, to a 3-1 win at Borussia Dortmund in the Champions League group stage on Tuesday.
Ronaldo has yet to score in the Spanish league, where he sat out for five games because of suspension for shoving a referee, but he increased his tally in Europes top club competition to four goals in two games as he helped send Dortmund to its second straight defeat in Group H.

Gareth Bale put the visitors ahead with a brilliant volley to the top far corner early in the first half, then ran onto Toni Krooss pass and crossed for Ronaldo, who put it away for a goal early in the second.
Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang pulled one back almost immediately for Dortmund, but Ronaldo sealed the win late with a thumping finish to beat goalkeeper Roman Buerki at his near post.
Several N.F.L.
team owners contributed a million dollars or more to President Trumps inauguration.
Heres how they reacted after he took a shot at N.F.L.
players who protest during the national anthem.
Photo

For the many people who believe that N.F.L.
players who kneel during the national anthem are disrespecting American armed forces, Pat Tillman was a perfect symbol.
But Marie Tillman, who was married to Corporal Tillman when he left a lucrative contract with the Arizona Cardinals to join the Army, has asked the hundreds of people invoking him in the debate over the players kneeling to stop politicizing his memory.
That group included President Trump, who on Monday retweeted an account praising the memory of the Cardinals star, who was killed in Afghanistan in 2004, and calling for a boycott of the N.F.L.
It was just one of many dozens of tweets over the weekend that contrasted Corporal Tillmans service with the demonstrations during the national anthem, which started as a way for players to call attention to racial injustice.
For those who viewed the gesture as spoiled or self-absorbed, Corporal Tillman represented an antithesis.
By the time Mr. Trump added his voice, the pushback had already begun, as people pointed out that Corporal Tillman was a less-than-convenient symbol for pride in the armed forces.
After he was killed in Afghanistan in 2004, the Army initially said that Afghan militants had been responsible.
It took nearly five weeks for the Tillman family to find out that he had been fatally shot by Army Rangers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After Mr. Trumps retweet, many also pointed out that the former football player had been a critic of the war in Iraq and of President George W. Bush.
Corporal Tillman was an intellectually curious, independent thinker interested in World War II and the works of the left-wing professor Noam Chomsky.
On Monday, Marie Tillman, who rarely speaks publicly, said that her husband deserved to be remembered as a symbol of unity.
Heres what you need to know to start your day.
For Twin Falls, Idaho, fake news has had real consequences.
Get a weekly roundup of the best advice from The Times on living a better, smarter, more fulfilling life.
If you have an hour, you can make one of these 30-minute-or-less meals and eat it with your loved ones.
With some basic due diligence, as well as a discerning eye, you can usually avoid buying a water-damaged car.
Its not a small rock show or a theatrical event.
One of rocks celebrated storytellers is bringing his tales to a new stage.
What happens after a defendant is found not guilty by reason of insanity?
Often the answer is involuntary confinement in a state psychiatric hospital  with no end in sight.
Some players grumble about a lot of rules to curb dangerous tackles but insist they are still hitting very, very hard.
With the tech industrys increasing dominance, Jason Calacanis, a tech investor, offers a radical guide for prospering: betting on more of it.
The theater chain has invested $20 million in the start-up Dreamscape Immersive and will open six locations offering V.R.
experiences in the next 18 months.
At a TimesTalks event, Satya Nadella said Silicon Valley had a significant distance to cover in offering equal opportunities for female workers.
The officer, James Frascatore, was charged with using excessive force against James Blake when he took him down in 2015, mistaking him for a fraud suspect.
Morning Briefing: Australia Edition The news and stories that matter to readers in Australia.
Sign up to get it by email, Monday through Friday.
Morning Briefing: Asia Edition The news and stories that matter to readers in Asia.
Sign up to get it by email, Monday through Friday.
Morning Briefing: Europe Edition The news and stories that matter to readers in Europe.
Sign up to get it by email, Monday through Friday.
California Today The news and stories that matter to Californians, delivered weekday mornings.
Even players admit to feeling conflicted, with limits on hitting extending to practices where they practice  hitting.
I miss some of the old ways, Giants center Weston Richburg said.
Having someone banging against your pads in practice does help you prepare for the amped up intensity of a game.
Photo

Are you ready?
Because in a game, everyone is moving at full speed and pads are popping.
But at the same time, current players look at retirees from the game and see how many of them are hobbled or mentally infirm.
Players today began youth or high school football before all the new rules, penalties and restrictions were enacted.
They grew up, as many fans did, with an almost primal attraction to footballs aggression.
The players long to be safer; several have told me of the desire to one day play with their grandchildren.
But they also want to play football.
Its a game where you hit people, the Pro Bowl linebacker Jon Beason said two years ago.
You cant get away from that and I dont want to.
The hitting in practice, for instance, you weed out a lot of guys.
You know whos really down for the cause.
Its essential.
But theyve taken that away.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It is true that N.F.L.
teams no longer do blocking and tackling in the vast majority of practices.
A modern N.F.L.
practice is more like a glorified game of touch football.
No one gets knocked around.
If someone is on the ground, he probably tripped.
Behind the lack of hard contact, is a cold, hard business decision.
Coaches and league executives are worried about injuries to players whom they pay on average about $2 million annually.
The impetus for change was new awareness about the dangers of concussions, head trauma and injuries of all kinds in a bruising game, along with the research that showed that more injuries occur in practice than games.
And again, at the major college and N.F.L.
level, protecting the players also meant protecting the bottom line.
When a star like Tom Brady of the New England Patriots was seriously injured and missed the 2008 season  on a hit that would now be ruled illegal  television ratings slipped, though there may have been other contributing factors behind that.
Photo

It might be telling that N.F.L.
players who played both before and after the new contact restrictions were established tend to welcome them.
The recently retired Giants guard Chris Snee, who remembers when linemen greeted opponents with a meaty slap on the head as plays began, said he appreciated the added protection.
Rules against shots to the head made a lot of sense to me, said Snee, a four-time Pro Bowl selection.
Snee also insisted, however, that the football field remains no place for the meek.
Guys are bigger and faster and just as physical, he said.
Its still tough out there, Im sure of that.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Other players who remember when there were virtually no safeguards against blindside and helmet-to-helmet hits bristled at the suggestion that the N.F.L.
had somehow gone soft.
Joe Theismann, the former Washington Redskins quarterback whose leg was gruesomely broken during a nationally televised game in 1985, called the sport as violent as its ever been.
Trust me, these guys hit just as hard, Theismann said Tuesday.
If you really watch the hits up close, you would not say the game is getting soft.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Which may be entirely the point.
On the sideline, where I have watched plenty of games, the speed and size of the mammoth players, the ferocity of the collisions, the constant crack of pads pounding pads, usually leaves the uninitiated awe-struck but also a little shaken.
Ive taken people down to the field, escorted them to within inches of the playing field and watched.
After a play or two, they usually start retreating to a safer distance  5 or 10 yards from the maelstrom.
It does not make them soft.
If anything, it seems to give them an informed understanding of what it takes to play professional football.
Several N.F.L.
team owners contributed a million dollars or more to President Trumps inauguration.
Heres how they reacted after he took a shot at N.F.L.
players who protest during the national anthem.
Photo

For the many people who believe that N.F.L.
players who kneel during the national anthem are disrespecting American armed forces, Pat Tillman was a perfect symbol.
But Marie Tillman, who was married to Corporal Tillman when he left a lucrative contract with the Arizona Cardinals to join the Army, has asked the hundreds of people invoking him in the debate over the players kneeling to stop politicizing his memory.
That group included President Trump, who on Monday retweeted an account praising the memory of the Cardinals star, who was killed in Afghanistan in 2004, and calling for a boycott of the N.F.L.
It was just one of many dozens of tweets over the weekend that contrasted Corporal Tillmans service with the demonstrations during the national anthem, which started as a way for players to call attention to racial injustice.
For those who viewed the gesture as spoiled or self-absorbed, Corporal Tillman represented an antithesis.
By the time Mr. Trump added his voice, the pushback had already begun, as people pointed out that Corporal Tillman was a less-than-convenient symbol for pride in the armed forces.
After he was killed in Afghanistan in 2004, the Army initially said that Afghan militants had been responsible.
It took nearly five weeks for the Tillman family to find out that he had been fatally shot by Army Rangers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After Mr. Trumps retweet, many also pointed out that the former football player had been a critic of the war in Iraq and of President George W. Bush.
Corporal Tillman was an intellectually curious, independent thinker interested in World War II and the works of the left-wing professor Noam Chomsky.
On Monday, Marie Tillman, who rarely speaks publicly, said that her husband deserved to be remembered as a symbol of unity.
It was real easy for everyone in our organization to see that the message of unity or equality was being pushed aside or diminished by the controversy, he said.
Mr. Jones declined to comment directly on Mr. Trumps recent comments about the N.F.L., saying, I made my mind up on this issue that I wasnt going to comment other than Im very proud of the fact that the Dallas Cowboys and our players have always stood for the flag and the recognition for the flag always.
Dallas Coach Jason Garrett opened a discussion of the pre-game demonstration by saying, Its been an interesting 48 hours for everybody.
Mr. Garrett went on to describe a series of meetings between players, coaches and ownership before the game.
The objectives as much as anything else, he said, were to somehow, some way demonstrate unity and demonstrate equality and do so without involving, in any way, the national anthem.
The demonstration at the beginning of ESPNs broadcast of Monday Night Football showed that the league was continuing to express solidarity in the wake of comments by Mr. Trump, at a political rally in Alabama and in Twitter posts, about how any players that kneel or sit during the anthem should be fired.
The situation escalated over the weekend, with Mr. Trump retweeting posts calling for a boycott of the N.F.L.
Most of the leagues owners have supported their players protests or demonstrations, either through statements to the news media or by standing with the players on the field during the playing of the anthem.
Mr. Jones, however, was the first owner to kneel with his players.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Before the demonstration on Monday, no Cowboys players had participated in any sort of anthem protest, and Mr. Jones had indicated he preferred that remain the case.
I do not think the place to express yourself in society is as we recognize the American flag, he said last week in an interview with Fox Business.
So thats not the place to do anything other than honor the flag and everybody thats given up a little bit for it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But with Mr. Trumps rhetoric against the league escalating, the decision was made on Monday for the Cowboys to make a statement as a team.
The reaction online was mixed, with some people impressed by Mr. Joness supporting his players and others saying the demonstration lost some weight because it came before the anthem.
Many on social media pointed out how much vitriol the Cowboys had received in some corners despite standing for the anthem, which was interpreted by some as an indication that those complaining about the demonstration were not solely concerned about respect for the flag or anthem.
Throughout the wave of protests, the N.F.L.
has stood by its players.
Joe Lockhart, the leagues executive vice president of communications and public affairs, addressed the issue during a conference call on Monday, telling reporters, Everyone should know, including the president, this is what real locker room talk is.
Various players addressed the protests on Monday, the most prominent being New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady, who explained his rationale for locking arms with a teammate.
If you dont agree, that is fine, Mr. Brady said in a radio interview.
You can voice your disagreement, I think that is great.
Its part of our democracy.
As long as it is done in a peaceful, respectful way, that is what our country has been all about.
Photo

One of the few players to express regret for Sundays actions was Ben Roethlisberger, the quarterback of the Pittsburgh Steelers, who claimed a miscommunication had led to his teammate, Alejandro Villanueva, being singled out as the only player seen from the field while the rest of the team remained in the tunnel before Pittsburghs game against the Chicago Bears at Soldier Field.
The idea was to be unified as a team when so much attention is paid to things dividing our country, but I wish we approached it differently, Mr. Roethlisberger wrote in a statement posted to his personal website.
We did not want to appear divided on the sideline with some standing and some kneeling or sitting.
With some form of demonstration occurring at every game on Sunday and Monday, the question going forward is whether the protests will persist into next week and beyond.
The first glimpse of what may happen will come on Thursday night when the Chicago Bears travel to Green Bay to face the Packers.
It is certainly true that some owners, most notably Arthur M. Blank of the Atlanta Falcons and Stephen M. Ross of the Miami Dolphins, have tried through charitable work to address the many thorny problems around racism, poverty and policing.
It took a rebuke from Mr. Trump to compel many of them to choose between remaining silent or publicly siding with the players.
Jerry Jones, the owner of the Dallas Cowboys, keeping with his preference for dramatic flourishes, went further than any other owner when he knelt with his team before the national anthem for his teams game with the Cardinals in Glendale, Ariz. Before Monday, Jones had been among the most vocal owners in saying he preferred that his players stand for the anthem.
But the public demonstration of unity and support may be short-lived.
While it is too early to know if the protests will continue, and in what form, Shahid Khan, the owner of the Jacksonville Jaguars and on Sunday the first owner to be seen linking arms with his players on the sidelines, has said he would not continue the practice in the coming weeks.
Im not a crusader, but this was a Rosa Parks moment for the Jaguars, he said.
I do not plan any future sideline appearances.
The owners decision to go with the players at least this time struck some as a fallback to protecting the league brand, embodied in its ubiquitous shield emblem with the American flag motif.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
This issue is about protecting the shield, said Andy Dolich, a former N.F.L.
team executive.
Theres a subliminal dollar sign in that shield, so it is fair to be cynical about the owners motives.
League executives, however, said they had minimal involvement in the owners or players actions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On Saturday, the commissioner, Roger Goodell, issued a statement condemning the presidents remarks.
Several clubs then contacted the league to find out what, if anything, other teams were doing to follow up, while players across the league consulted one another on what to do.
There was a lot of sharing and the league was kind of a clearinghouse, said Joe Lockhart, an N.F.L.
spokesman.
Nearly all 32 teams released statements, but most of the owners have not commented further.
The owners, stewards of a $14 billion league, the richest and most powerful in the United States, have tried to tread carefully.
They did not ask for this moment in the political spotlight and seem in a hurry to leave it.
Football and politics dont mix easily, the Cincinnati Bengals, whose owner is Mike Brown, said in a statement Monday.
Fans come to N.F.L.
games to watch great competition on the playing field and thats where our focus should be.
While some of the owners said they support the players right to speak out, they also worry about a backlash and recognize that many spectators object to protests during the national anthem.
At this point, I want to get away from politics and if they are going to continue protest, then I dont need to spend my money there, said Brandon Gill, a realtor from Jacksonville, Fla., who is considering giving up his Jaguars season tickets.
Frankly, Im just tired of it all.
A state legislator in Louisiana, Kenneth Havard, a Republican, said he wants to take away millions of dollars in subsidies and tax breaks that the New Orleans Saints and the N.F.L.
receive because they have allowed players to protest during the national anthem.
Disrespecting our national anthem and flag in the name of social injustice is the highest form of hypocrisy, Mr. Havard said in a statement.
It is time the taxpayers quit subsidizing protest on big boy playgrounds.
I believe in the right to protest but not at a taxpayer subsidized sporting event.
Then again, with calls for boycotts of the N.F.L.
over Mr. Kaepernicks not being hired, it is fair to say objections are coming from the right and left.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

N.F.L.
owners are nothing if not businessmen, so until attendance declines precipitously, or it can be determined that the protests have directly led to a decline in television ratings, they are unlikely to clamp down on the protests.
Indeed, the league got a pat on the back on Monday when Ford and Nike, two big N.F.L.
sponsors, issued statements backing the players right to protest.
What I want to know is why we gave up 23 points to the Bears; no one seems to be talking about that, said Rose Morton, who on Monday was waiting for a train wearing a black Steelers T-shirt emblazoned with the words RINGS DONT LIE and the dates of the Steelers six Super Bowl wins.
Football isnt politics.
Football is football.
This was not the first time Pittsburgh had found itself thrown into a national political argument that it had not asked for.
In early June, Trump announced his decision to pull out of the international climate agreement by explaining that he was elected to represent the president of Pittsburgh, not Paris.
This grated here but also amused; the smoggy Steel City stereotype is almost humorously outdated in a city of self-driving cars and Google-shirted shoppers at Trader Joes.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But to start a debate within the sports teams  and the Steelers in particular, winners in the steeltown era and winners in the tech hub era, too  may cut deeper than a misbranding of the citys economic base.
The issues that are being discussed are absolutely critical to this nation, said the mayor, Bill Peduto, referring to the racial inequity and police brutality highlighted by players who take a knee and Alejandro Villanueva, a former Army ranger and Bronze star recipient who was the sole Steeler to stand outside the tunnel for the anthem.
But this just is a way of dividing us in one of the areas we have always been able to unite, he said.
It should be that part of Pittsburgh that takes over our politics, not Washington politics taking over Pittsburgh.
Many people here, both supporters and critics of Trump, saw the Penguins announcement as an innocuous if rather oddly-timed statement about keeping a tradition of White House visits.
The teams president, David Morehouse, worked in the Clinton administration, and one of its owners, Ron Burkle, is a well-known Clinton donor.
The N.H.L.
is bipartisan, said Joel Hollies, 34, a bartender sitting before a couple of empty Miller High Life bottles in a Penguin-festooned bar on the south side of town.
I bet Trump cant name four players on the Pens.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The conversation was almost exclusively about the Steelers, not only because the teams decision was the one outside the norm but also because, among the citys professional franchises, the Steelers are first among equals.
The fan base tends to be older than that of the Penguins, said Gene Collier, a columnist for The Post-Gazette, in large part because the Steelers were very good long before the Penguins were very good, and the Steelers have now been good for decades (the Pirates, Pittsburghs major league baseball team, have had longer stretches of not being very good).
Steelers loyalty runs deep, but among some, this was tested by the teams decision on Sunday.
Some threatened to burn jerseys or junk season tickets.
Photo

What they did really sickens me; its changed my opinion of them, said Kristen Trosky, a bartender and lifelong Steelers fan who heard fans complain all day on Sunday.
Its like if youre invited to a wedding, and youre not the same religion as the bride or groom.
You still follow their customs and respect their traditions.
Its not up to you to voice your opinion there.
And the tradition at football games is you stand up during the national anthem.
Mr. Hollies found this unconvincing.
The team had not injected politics into this past Sunday; the president had.
In fact, Mr. Hollies said, echoing the comments by Steelers Coach Mike Tomlin, by staying in the tunnel the team had been trying to avoid politics.
The staying in the locker room is a nonissue, its just Trump supporters who think its the issue, he said.
They support Trump more than they support the Steelers.
Its disgusting.
This was not universally true.
At an Eatn Park diner south of the city, Bill Powers, a veteran, Steelers fan and Trump voter, explained that he did not like when players took a knee during the anthem.
But he also saw that Mr. Tomlin had a difficult matter to deal with while also maintaining player discipline and unity.
Rather than have some players stand and some kneel on the sideline, it made sense to avoid the issue altogether.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I wasnt offended in any way, Mr.
Powers said.
It was a coaching call to keep the team focused.
The real mystery, he went on, was why the president he voted for decided to pick a fight with the N.F.L.
in the first place.
What was he thinking?
Powers said.
Then, possibly answering his own question, he added, Sometimes he just doesnt think.
But live sports, and particularly the N.F.L., have become increasingly defined by their television ratings.
For the past decade, ratings across television have fallen because of expanding cable packages, competition from streaming services and DVRs, and the ubiquity of smartphones.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Live sports have proved mostly immune from this trend.
Until now.
The N.F.L.s regular season ratings fell by about 8 percent from 2015 to 2016, a drop that has been subject to all manner of explanation.
Some believed news coverage of the polarizing presidential race siphoned off viewership, pointing out that ratings improved after the election.
Others cited a dearth of stars on the field  a consequence of Peyton Mannings retirement and Tom Bradys suspension  and a lack of compelling games.
Increased awareness of concussions and of the physical toll of football, high-profile cases of domestic abuse by players and disgust over protests during the national anthem all have been blamed, too.
The unsatisfying truth is that N.F.L.
ratings are a Rorschach test, often revealing more about the test taker than the subject.
Ratings for the first week of this season dropped by 12 percent from last year, but those games were played the day Hurricane Irma landed in Florida, when millions of viewers were tuned to coverage of the storm instead of football.
Ratings for Week 2 were down by 15 percent  but only by 4 percent if one factors in that the Thursday night game was only broadcast on the N.F.L.
Network, while last year it was on both the N.F.L.
Network and CBS, which has a wider reach.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Then, on Friday night, during a rally in Alabama, President Trump said owners of N.F.L.
teams should fire any player that kneels during the national anthem.
He went on to say that N.F.L.
ratings were down massively, massively, and implored fans to leave the stadium if any player kneels during the anthem.
League executives were cautiously optimistic that Trumps comments would boost ratings for Week 3 games on Sunday, and they might have been right.
The unofficial overnight ratings for Sundays games were down by about 4 percent, but it is likely that the overall Week 3 ratings will rise with strong viewership for the Dallas Cowboys on Monday night, coupled with high numbers from last Thursdays game.
In an interesting wrinkle, while ratings for the games themselves were incomplete, CBS said ratings for its pregame show rose by 33 percent, while Foxs two pregame shows were up by 30 percent (from 11 a.m. to noon Eastern) and 9 percent (from noon until the 1 p.m. kickoffs).
On Tuesday morning, Trump raised the topic again on Twitter, saying, Ratings for NFL football are way down except before game starts, when people tune in to see whether or not our country will be disrespected!
The N.F.L.
is still by far the most popular sport in the United States, and its games the most popular live sports events on television, but viewership is clearly trending down.
Trying to parse out why is difficult.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This summer, a J.D.
Power survey of sports fans reported that 26 percent of fans who said they watched fewer N.F.L.
games did so because of protests during the national anthem, according to an ESPN report.
But only 12 percent of sports fans said they watched fewer N.F.L.
games  meaning only 3 percent of respondents over all said they watched fewer games because of protests  and 27 percent of fans surveyed said they actually watched more games than they had the previous year.
According to Mike Mulvihill, Fox Sportss head of research, nearly 203 million people watched some part of the N.F.L.
regular season in 2016, a 5 percent increase from the previous year.
The declines were about a growing pool of fans spending less time with the games each week, he told SportsBusiness Journal.
That suggests the ratings decline was the result of hard-core fans becoming casual ones rather than viewers tuning out altogether.
The 8 percent drop in ratings between 2015 and 2016 amounted to about 1.4 million fewer people watching each N.F.L.
game on average, though ascribing a single motivation to that many people is folly.
All of the above reasons, and more, are factors, and it is extraordinarily difficult to understand how important any one of them is on the overall numbers.
Across all live sports, though, it is likely that ratings will continue to drop.
Viewers are continuing to abandon their cable packages, or refusing to sign up in the first place.
And as more and more games become available, watching any single one loses importance.
Games will continue to shift from network television to cable to internet streaming services, which are available to a smaller customer base.
The end result is that, for all manner of reasons, fans simply will watch more or fewer games.
But by next Monday afternoon, when the Week 4 N.F.L.
ratings will be revealed, political preference will be read into them yet again.
Im not going to do it again next week, he said.
I didnt want to do it this week.
This all had to do with President Trumps comments.
Thats the only reason that we did that.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Kenneth Shropshire, who runs the Global Sport Institute at Arizona State University, is the author of the book In Black and White: Race and Sports in America.
He has some interesting thoughts on the effectiveness of protest movements, and he worries that the N.F.L.
movement might be fleeting.
To effect real change, Mr. Shropshire told me, the demonstrations cant disappear in a flash.
But their staying power depends on the reason the players and owners were spurred to action.
At the player level, it really was someone saying on the street, Yo mama, he said.
And at the basest level, nobody can talk about your mother without some retribution.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
At the owner level, he said, any continued displays of solidarity will depend how much of the protest stemmed from owners anger that the president had told them how to run their businesses.
Their thinking might be, How dare this person get into my business?
he said.
So itll be interesting if some owner signs Kaepernick now, just to show that Trump cant engage in their business.
The real problem with players who focus solely on Mr. Trumps comments is that he will have succeeded in steering attention away from the original issues  racism and police brutality.
On Sunday, everyone seemed to be consumed by a different matter: whether it is appropriate to kneel during the anthem.
Vernon Davis, a Redskins tight end, said he had an idea for how to get beyond the bickering and properly engage on the real issues: Gather top players from each of the professional leagues and have them meet with Mr. Trump at the White House.
We have some of the largest platforms there is, he said.
Were huge influences when it comes to people.
He added: Why not just come together and make it right?
Because there is an issue, there is a problem, for sure.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Davis said he would gladly meet with Mr. Trump, but only at the right time, which he said would be outside of football season.
So Mr. Davis, at least, has put everything on hold until February.
By then, the opportunity might be gone.
Richard Lapchick, the director of the Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sport, said that if a strong core of players would be willing to start  or continue  the conversation about racial equality and justice in their communities, the movement could grow quickly.
Sunday was the most important sports day since Ali decided not to fight in Vietnam, Mr. Lapchick said.
Yes, I think it was that big.
What we dont do in America is talk about these issues openly, but now we could easily create a forum where athletes and city leaders and front offices and police can discuss racial justice.
Right now we dont have any of that kind of unity in our communities.
Redskins cornerback Josh Norman said he would be up for that kind of outreach.
After Sundays game, he stood at his locker long after every other player left the room and talked about President Trump and about freedom and how something in this country has to change.
He said he was so sickened and disturbed by the presidents insults that he couldnt stop thinking about his place in the world, and that the game came secondary.
What about next weekends game?
For now, Mr. Norman said, he was thinking about how to make things better and exercising his right to be free.
The next few years were even more of a whirlwind: winning a Bronze Star for valor as a platoon leader in Afghanistan; completing Ranger school, the Armys premier leadership course and one of the most challenging tests in the military; serving two more tours in Afghanistan in the elite Ranger Regiment; and eventually winning a starting job and a four-year, $24 million contract with the Steelers.
Now, Villanueva has one more bit of fame: He was the only member of the Steelers to walk out of the tunnel during the playing of the national anthem before Sundays game against the Chicago Bears.
He held his hand over his heart while the song played.
His teammates remained several feet behind him, just inside the tunnel  notably not on the field, in protest of President Trump and his comments about the N.F.L.
Villanueva, a 6-foot-8, 320-pound lineman who was born in Mississippi but is the son of a Spanish naval officer, did not speak with the news media after Sundays game.
But as his anthem appearance became the subject of heated debate on Monday, he spoke to reporters in Pittsburgh and said that he had inadvertently gotten separated from his team.
He said he had intended to stand at the end of the tunnel where no one would see him, and watch from there as the anthem was played.
But once he realized he was visibly outside, he decided he could not turn around and go back to where his teammates were standing, a few feet inside the tunnel.
Do you walk out of the national anthem and join your teammates?
Villanueva said.
That would have looked extremely bad.
He added: I never planned to boycott the plan that the Steelers came up with.
I just thought that there could be some middle ground where I could stay in the tunnel, nobody would see me.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In past interviews, Villanueva has expressed solidarity with the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernicks sideline protests over racism toward African-Americans.
But he has also previously questioned whether Kaepernicks approach inadvertently suggested a lack of appreciation for service members whose sacrifices have made such protests possible.
I was one of the first ones who took offense when Colin Kaepernick took a knee, Villanueva said Monday.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But he also said he has not been offended by N.F.L.
players taking a knee during the national anthem recently, saying, I dont think as a veteran, I take offense.
Nobody thinks that when youre taking a knee, youre offending the flag, he said.
Similarly, he said, I dont think anyone standing for the flag is not respecting the fact that there is a lot of injustices and racial divide in our country.
As for his own choice going forward, he said, Im going to stand up for the national anthem.
A major regret for Villanueva was the fact that his actions made his teammates and his coach look bad as they scrambled to explain why he was the only player visible.
Unfortunately, I threw them under the bus unintentionally, he said.
Every single time I see that picture of me standing by myself, I feel embarrassed.
He declined to comment on President Trump and his comments that players who refuse to stand for the anthem should be fired from the N.F.L.
After the Steelers loss on Sunday, quarterback Ben Roethlisberger said the team agreed at a players-only meeting on Saturday night to remain in the locker room or tunnel during the anthem.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Asked whether it was a problem that Villanueva had appeared for the anthem when the rest of the team had not, Roethlisberger said only, No.
In a news conference on Monday, Roethlisberger expanded on that answer, telling a similar story to the one offered by Villanueva, while citing the carrying of a Bears flag into the tunnel as the reason Villanueva got separated from his teammates.
Like a lot of combat veterans, Villanuevas time overseas appears to have helped frame his perspective on the rest of his life, including playing professional football.
When asked about being one of the leagues lowest-paid starting left tackles  a position that guards his quarterbacks blind side and often commands a premium in the N.F.L.
he pointed out that others had endured far more serious challenges.
I was deployed three times, he told The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette last year.
Ive got so many things, so many other situations in my life where it couldve been the opposite.
It could have been like, Man, would you rather be walking on both your legs?
Or, Would you rather still have all your limbs and whatnot?
These scenarios of whether youre getting $24 million or someone else is getting 46  to me, thats irrelevant.
Villanueva has also expressed ambivalence about receiving the Bronze Star, because a soldier he rescued, Pfc.
Jesse Dietrich, later died.
In my case, my platoon was hammered time after time, Villanueva told ESPN.
A lot of people were getting wounded, and a lot of people were getting hurt.
When you have leaders that are still carrying the team and still pushing, theyll find an opportunity to say that night, 25th of August, this guy was overwhelmed, and he reacted by putting his own life at risk.
But if you truly think about it, thats what I was supposed to do, he added.
Because what was I going to do, leave the guy out there?
Even before Villanuevas harrowing experiences overseas, those who knew him at West Point said, it would have been hard for him to miss the national anthem.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He has an intense love for his country, and he always did the utmost to make that apparent, said Captain Harrison, who is now a student at the Armys Command and General Staff College at Fort Leavenworth, Kan.
Brady spoke Monday morning on the Kirk & Callahan show on WEEI.
He said of Trumps remarks: Yeah, I certainly disagree with what he said.
I thought it was just divisive.
Like I said, I just want to support my teammates.
I am never one to say: Oh, that is wrong.
That is right.
I do believe in what I believe in.
I believe in bringing people together and respect and love and trust.
Those are the values that my parents instilled in me.
That is how I try and live every day.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Were all different, were all unique.
That is what makes us all special.
Everyone deals with different challenges in their life and you respect everyones opinions and views, he said.
You dont have to agree with everything.
Its hard to agree with your own wife on everything from day-to-day.
I have so much respect for my teammates and what were trying to accomplish.
Hopefully we can keep marching toward this end of the season, keep making improvements, get better and win more football games.
If you dont agree, that is fine.
You can voice your disagreement, I think that is great.
Its part of our democracy.
As long as it is done in a peaceful, respectful way, that is what our country has been all about.
After the anthem on Sunday, Brady led the Patriots to a come-from-behind 36-33 victory over the Houston Texans in Foxborough, Mass.
Despite his friendship with Trump, Bradys vote in the last election remains something of a mystery.
Trump claimed Brady backed him, but Bradys wife, the model Gisele Bndchen, denied that.
The former Patriot tackle Matt Light was one ex-player who took exception to the protests.
If you think that its OK to take a knee during our national anthem and disrespect openly the national anthem, you are wrong, Light told The Boston Herald.
It would have never happened during my time, he said.
Its the first time Ive ever been ashamed to be a Patriot.
And I promise you Im not the only one.
Trump raised the issue again on Monday morning on Twitter, praising Nascar drivers for respecting the anthem and denying his stand had anything to do with race.
Photo

The singer and producer Pharrell Williams is the latest entertainer to show solidarity with N.F.L.
players protesting President Trumps call to fire players who refuse to stand during the national anthem.
At a charity show on Sunday in Charlottesville, Va., where violent demonstrations took place in August, Mr. Williams said, Im in Virginia right now, Im home.
Cant nobody tell me what to do if I want to get on my knees right now.
He then dropped onto both knees.
Mr. Williamss display follows a wave of demonstrations across the country on Sunday as N.F.L.
players knelt or locked arms during the national anthem in defiance of Mr. Trump.
The Take a Knee protest has now grown beyond the sporting world, and entertainers and performers are joining in.
The symbolic action began in August 2016, when Colin Kaepernick, then the San Francisco 49ers quarterback, knelt to protest police brutality and racial injustice.
Mr. Trump stirred up the issue anew by saying said in a speech on Friday and then in a series of tweets over the weekend that players who do not stand during the anthem should be fired.
In Charlottesville, Mr. Williams paused between songs to say: For the people of my city, for the people of my state, thats what that flag is for.
When I think about the potential of this country and the potential of this state, potential of these people, potential of this amazing university, there is only one word that I feel on the inside.
The artist then began singing his Grammy Award-winning hit Happy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Other performers have joined the Take a Knee demonstration.
At the Global Citizen Festival in New York on Saturday, Stevie Wonder knelt on stage and said, Tonight, Im taking a knee for America.
But not just one knee.
Im taking both knees.
Photo

Mr. Wonder made the gesture again the following night, at the same Charlottesville show where Mr. Williams was performing.
Mr. Wonder was on stage with Dave Matthews Band when he took to two knees, and Dave Matthews joined him in the stance.
The swift punishment by Olympic officials served as a warning to others, the article said.
The action obviously tempered the behavior of Negro American athletes who were involved in victory ceremonies today.
In accepting their medals for their one, two, three sweep of the 400-meter run, Lee Evans, Larry James and Ron Freeman wore black berets, but in no way conducted themselves in a manner to incur official wrath.
Photo

1972: Vince Matthews and Wayne Collett are barred from the Olympics

Four years after the 1968 controversy, a new one arose.
The track athletes Vince Matthews and Wayne Collett, who were also both black, took the podium in Munich, at a time when officials feared a repeat of the Mexico City gesture.
The Timess 2010 obituary for Mr. Collett said that as the anthem was played, the pair did not face the flag.
They stood casually, hands on hips, their jackets unzipped, The Times reported.
They chatted and fidgeted.
The obituary added: When the anthem ended and they climbed off the stand, the crowd booed.
Matthews twirled his medal and Collett gave a black power salute.
The two men were barred from Olympic competition by the International Olympic Committee, an action that The Times described in an editorial as an authoritarian decree.
The editorial continued, Unquestionably, the slouching, defiant posture of the two black athletes did no credit to either, but the persistence they had shown in training up to perfection pitch demonstrated that they had no lack of the Olympic ethic.
1973: Fans on Long Island boo college athletes

Fans at a college track meet at Nassau Coliseum on Long Island went from agitated to furious in January 1973 when at least one athlete lay on the ground during the national anthem.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As the music played, at least one runner from Eastern Michigan University continued to warm up on the floor, The Times reported.
Another athlete, wearing an Adelphi uniform, was also observed reclining on the ground.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Several fans began shouting, the article said, and after the anthem, most of the 8,551 spectators joined in the booing.
The article continued: Some chanted Throw them out!
Others shouted racial epithets at the athletes, who were black.
Photo

Later, the Eastern Michigan runner would say: I was just stretching out, preparing for my race.
I didnt mean any protest, and Im sorry I caused such a commotion.
But the booing continued, and some officials threatened to walk off the floor if Eastern Michigan was allowed to compete.
The team was disqualified.
The Times quoted Bob Parks, the Eastern Michigan coach, who is white and wears his hair very closely cropped, as saying: Im as conservative as anyone around.
I stand and sing for the anthem.
I think the kids should stand, too, and Im going to give them hell.
But why disqualify the whole team?
Parks said he was surprised by the reaction of the crowd.
At our place, when they play The Star-Spangled Banner at basketball games, a lot of the black students dont stand, he said.
I guess things are different here.
1973: Madison Square Garden drops the anthem, then reverses its decision

Amid growing controversy over whether it should be played at sports events, a front-page article in The Times on Jan. 16, 1973, reported, the national anthem has been dropped from the Olympic Invitational track and field meet at Madison Square Garden.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Times quoted the meets director as saying that playing the anthem was not obligatory because its purpose and relevance to sports events has never been established.
A day later, the front page told a different story: Garden to Hear Anthem at Track Meet, After All.
The reversal came after the United States Olympic Committee was deluged with irate calls from all over the country, The Times reported.
Photo

1996: The N.B.A.
suspends Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf

In March 1996, the National Basketball Association suspended Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf of the Denver Nuggets for his refusal to stand during the national anthem.
Mr. Abdul-Rauf, who converted to Islam in 1991, said he did not believe in standing for any nationalistic ideology.
The real problem, according to an editorial in The Times, was not the wisdom or accuracy of Mr. Abdul-Raufs view that the flag is a symbol of oppression, or that Islamic teachings require that he not stand for the anthem.
It was the N.B.A.s blindness to the fact that trying to force participation in a patriotic exercise undermines democratic values.
Advertisement

What Every N.F.L.
Team Did During the National Anthem on Sunday

Widespread calls for demonstrations at Sunday's games erupted after President Trump's comments this weekend criticizing players for kneeling during the national anthem and owners for tolerating the displays.
Starting with Jacksonvilles game against Baltimore in London, players, coaches and several owners protested across the league .
Here is a look at what each team did during the playing of the national anthem:

Image Officials stand in front of an empty bench during the national anthem before the Seahawks-Titans game.
Credit Mark Zaleski/Associated Press

Seattle Seahawks at Tennessee Titans

In the days largest protest so far, neither team was on the field for Meghan Linseys singing of the national anthem.
While the Titans not participating was something of a surprise, the Seahawks had announced in advance that they would not participate.
As a team, we have decided we will not participate in the national anthem, the team said in a statement.
We will not stand for the injustice that has plagued people of color in this country.
Out of love for our country and in honor of the sacrifices made on our behalf, we unite to oppose those that would deny our most basic freedoms.
Advertisement

The complete lack of players made for a bizarre scene in which team mascots and game officials were the only figures television cameras could focus on besides the flag and Linsey.
Unlike some other stadiums, where fans booed at the protests, the fans in Nashville were eerily quiet during the anthem, and after the songs conclusion the players began running onto the field.
Image Credit Top: Jonathan Daniel/Getty Images; Charles Rex Arbogast/Associated Press

Pittsburgh Steelers at Chicago Bears

Another dramatic demonstration came from the Pittsburgh Steelers, who were playing the Bears at Soldier Field in Chicago.
The entire Steelers team remained off the field during the playing of the national anthem, while some of the teams coaches, including Mike Tomlin, were on the sideline.
The one Pittsburgh player seen during the anthem was Alejandro Villanueva, a former Army Ranger who served in Afghanistan, who was in the tunnel with his hand over his heart.
The players took the field at the conclusion of the anthem.
Bears stood on the sideline with their arms linked together.
Image Credit Top: Al Bello/Getty Images; Seth Wenig/Associated Press

Miami Dolphins at Jets

Christopher Johnson, the acting owner of the Jets, joined his players in locking arms during the anthem.
The Jets have yet to comment on Mr. Trumps remarks in spite of the fact that Johnsons father, Woody, is a close ally of the president and the current ambassador to Britain.
Shaun King, a columnist for The Intercept who is closely associated with the Black Lives Matter movement, claimed Jets players were discouraged from protesting.
The Dolphins had several players wear #IMWITHKAP T-shirts in support of Colin Kaepernick, the player whose own protests last season started the movement that is now boiling over.
The team also had players linking arms, with several kneeling.
Image Credit Top: Matt Dunham/Associated Press; Paul Childs/Reuters

Baltimore Ravens at Jacksonville Jaguars (London)

In London, the game between the Ravens and the Jaguars began with the anthem being played as more than a dozen players from the two teams knelt for the duration of the anthem.
Coach John Harbaugh of the Ravens, Coach Doug Marrone of the Jaguars and Shahid Khan, the owner of the Jaguars, stood locking arms with players and coaches on the field as well.
After the American anthem had concluded, the kneeling players all stood for the British national anthem.
Image Credit Top: David Butler Ii/USA Today Sports, via Reuters; Jim Rogash/Getty Images

Houston Texans at New England Patriots

The Patriots have often been seen as allies of Mr. Trump.
The president has claimed to be friendly with the teams owner, Robert Kraft, and its star, Tom Brady.
But Mr. Kraft condemned the presidents remarks, and the Patriots were one of the many teams to demonstrate during the anthem, with Brady locking arms with many of his teammates while around 20 players chose to kneel.
The Texans players all chose to lock arms.
Image Credit Top: Matt Rourke/Associated Press; Michael Perez/Associated Press

Giants at Philadelphia Eagles

Philadelphias owner, Jeffrey Lurie, joined the Eagles players on the sideline, locking arms as a group, while some of the team split off to surround Malcolm Jenkins, a player who since last season has stood with a raised fist during the anthem.
Torrey Smith and Marcus Johnson also raised their fists this week.
Olivier Vernon, Landon Collins and Damon Harrison of the Giants became the first players from that team to kneel during the anthem, while the rest of the team stood with arms linked.
After a touchdown in the second half, Odell Beckham Jr. dropped the ball and stood in the end zone with a raised fist, continuing the demonstrations from earlier in the day.
Image Credit Top: Kelvin Kuo/USA Today Sports, via Reuters; Sean M. Haffey/Getty Images

Kansas City Chiefs at Los Angeles Chargers

Melvin Ingram knelt, a group of five players sat and the rest of the Chargers locked arms during the anthem.
On the other side of the field, the Chiefs were in an interesting position, as that teams chairman, Clark Hunt, has regularly stated that he prefers that his players stand for the anthem.
But Hunt somewhat backed away from that stance with a statement that read, in part, We believe in honoring the American flag and supporting all of those whose sacrifices protect the many freedoms with have in this country, including the right to have differences of opinion.
Some of the Chiefs players were seen kneeling or sitting during the anthem, including Marcus Peters, who sat while raising his fist.
The strongest statement came from the teams standout linebacker, Justin Houston, who chose to kneel by himself by the teams bench, facing the crowd rather than the field.
Image Credit Top: Rey Del Rio/Getty Images; Leon Halip/Getty Images

Atlanta Falcons at Detroit Lions

Atlantas owner, Arthur Blank, who had already issued a statement denouncing the presidents remarks, joined his players on the sideline during the anthem, locking arms, as did Detroits owner, Martha Ford, and her three daughters.
Rico Lavelle, who performed the anthem, took at knee at the conclusion of the song and raised his fist.
Advertisement

Image Credit Top: Thomas J. Russo/USA Today Sports, via Reuters; Darron Cummings/Associated Press

Cleveland Browns at Indianapolis Colts

The crowd in Indianapolis was booing loudly as players on both teams chose to either lock arms or kneel.
The Browns had around 20 players kneeling.
The owners of the team, Jimmy and Dee Haslam, said in a statement that We must not let misguided, uninformed and divisive comments from the president or anyone else deter us from our efforts to unify.
Our stance in support of the liberties of peaceful, personal expression afforded to our players and all Americans will remain strong, and we will continue to encourage our players to respectfully use their earned platform to inspire positive change in our nation and throughout society, it continued.
Despite the booing, the Colts had several players kneel during the anthem as well.
Image Players for the Buffalo Bills and the Denver Broncos protested before their game on Sunday.
Credit Top: Brett Carlsen/Getty Images; Adrian Kraus/Associated Press

Denver Broncos at Buffalo Bills

The Broncos, who have had players protesting since last season, had more than 30 players kneeling during the anthem (including some practice squad members) while the Bills had one of the more unusual demonstrations, with the entire team walking about 10 yards onto the field together before having several players kneel.
Image Credit Top: Bob Leverone/Associated Press; Streeter Lecka/Getty Images

New Orleans Saints at Carolina Panthers

Adrian Peterson and Mark Ingram were part of a group of around 10 members of the Saints who stayed on the bench during the anthem.
The Panthers stood for the anthem, as they have since the protests began last season.
The Panthers Julius Peppers was not on the field during the anthem  he arrived after it had ended  but the team has not issued a statement as to whether his absence was a protest of any kind.
Image Credit Photos by Brad Rempel/USA Today Sports, via Reuters

Tampa Bay Buccaneers at Minnesota Vikings

While no players on the Vikings chose to kneel during the anthem, the entire team, and the teams owners, stood with their arms linked.
Tampa Bay had two players kneel during the anthem, DeSean Jackson and Mike Evans.
The Buccaneers recognize every individuals constitutional right to freedom of speech, which is crucial to the American way of life that we cherish, the team said in a statement.
We are equally committed to the principles of inclusivity and respect for differing points of view that should be afforded to all Americans.
Image Credit Top: Mike Roemer/Associated Press; Jeff Hanisch/USA Today Sports, via Reuters

Cincinnati Bengals at Green Bay Packers

Martellus Bennett, Kevin King and Lance Kendricks of the Green Bay Packers all sat during the anthem, while most of the players on that team stood with their arms linked, while most of the Bengals players chose to link arms but none knelt.
Bennetts protest came a day after he unleashed a series of texts criticizing the presidents remarks about football players.
Image Credit Top: Brad Mills/USA Today Sports, via Reuters; Alex Brandon/Associated Press

Oakland Raiders at Washington Redskins

The entire offensive line of the Oakland Raiders, the only line in the N.F.L.
made up entirely of African-American players, was joined by virtually the entire team in kneeling or sitting during the national anthem.
It was one of the strongest visual displays of the many protests on Sunday, and across the field, the Redskins stood with linked arms as some players chose to kneel.
Many fans in attendance at FedEx Field could be heard booing the players while they sat.
In this case as well, the content started with the president.
As Seth Meyers, the host of NBCs Late Night, told Vox recently, The White House has the best writers room in comedy.
Where football is any given Sunday, late-night comedy is every single weeknight.
And with its harder charge into anti-Trump political humor, it has sailed into what the former New York Times writer Bill Carter called absolutely uncharted territory.
I checked in with Mr. Carter not only because we are old colleagues but also because he is the nations foremost student of late-night entertainment.
He literally wrote the book on it  that is, The Late Shift, the classic yarn about the war between David Letterman and Jay Leno to get Johnny Carsons job on the Tonight show.
(He followed it up with The War For Late Night, about the Conan OBrien debacle at NBC.)
Theres no example of any kind of sustained attack like this on a politician, Mr. Carter told me last week.
Theres a horde of writers writing jokes about Donald Trump every single night.
(And, he said, he wasnt even counting the weekly shows like Saturday Night Live, Last Week Tonight with John Oliver and Full Frontal with Samantha Bee.)
This has brought about an abundance of incisive political satire.
But it has also come with new complications that threaten to kill the fun, through blowback on the pro-Trump right and the rigid expectations of an anti-Trump audience that wants Resistance TV every night.
Mr. Colbert bumped up against the latter when he hosted the Emmys last week and decided to do a bit with the former Trump press secretary Sean Spicer.
His writing team from The Late Show knew it might not be well-received in some quarters and debated the idea ahead of time, people familiar with the deliberations told me (they spoke on condition of anonymity so as not to be seen as violating the sanctity of the writing room).
Photo

By normal comedic standards, the idea seemed pretty basic: Put Mr. Spicer behind a mock White House lectern and have him make a fake boast about the size of the Emmy audience  evoking the false claim he made about Mr. Trumps inaugural crowd.
The sketch fast became heckler bait.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Is it supposed to be comical that the former White House spokesman is now tacitly admitting that he lied to the American people?
a CNN White House correspondent, Kaitlan Collins, wrote in a tweet.
Entertainment Weekly quoted Julia Louis-Dreyfus as saying, Theres nothing funny about Sean Spicer and what his actions have been and what his behavior has been about.
Period.
The gag was woefully off-kilter with Mr. Colberts brand of principled, political comedy.
Much of his criticism revolved around Mr. Spicers role in forwarding the presidents anti-press, alternative facts strategy.
Now, he was being attacked for having abetted Spicers image overhaul, as The Timess Frank Bruni put it.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But Mr. Spicer was a burning ember for every comedic set of hands  or lips  he touched.
James Corden, the Late Late Show host who follows Mr. Colbert, felt compelled to apologize after a picture circulated of him giving Mr. Spicer a peck on the cheek at an Emmy party.
Understandably, some people have been disappointed by this photo, Mr. Corden told his audience.
In truth, Im disappointed by it as well.
Yet while Mr. Colbert and Mr. Corden were fielding criticism last week, Jimmy Kimmel was riding a wave of Resistance support, because of the way he eviscerated the latest Republican health care bill on his show.
It became a big news story in its own right because it was such an unusual situation: Republicans pushing the plan, including the president, were facing their strongest opposition from a late-night talk show host on ABC.
Mr. Kimmel has a personal connection to the debate  his son has a congenital heart condition that, Mr. Kimmel has said, would potentially go untreated under the recently proposed new health care laws if the boy did not have a wealthy father.
The response from the right was intense.
But where that might have led to a course correction in the past, as it so often had, Mr. Kimmel pressed on for three nights in a row.
Were at the point now where Mr. Fallon has been widely criticized for being too apolitical  and was eviscerated for playfully mussing Mr. Trumps hair.
He adjusted his show accordingly, a shift for Tonight, which is, after all, the original late-night talk show.
Leno was the guy who was most likely to be down the middle with his commentary, Mr. Carter said, referring to Jay Leno, Mr. Fallons predecessor, who led the late-night ratings through most of his 22-year tenure.
He was more or less following the tradition of his own predecessor, Johnny Carson, who made plenty of fun of Richard Nixon, Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan.
But, as Mr. Carter put it, Carson was judicious about his criticism.
Mr. Lenos direct competitor, David Letterman, was known in his later years for skewering former President George W. Bush and his vice president, Dick Cheney, but for most of his tenure, he was not particularly political.
Dave would have said, Im just an idiot, I dont really know anything, said Mr. Carter, who now works as a media analyst for CNN.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And now, Mr. Carter said, Colbert and Seth Meyers, they are like the voice of the resistance.
One explanation, he said, is that late-night comedy has always played off the news, and these days, all of the news is about Mr. Trump.
Then there is the content of that news, and the reactions it so often causes.
In calling Mr. Trumps response to the white supremacist march in Charlottesville, Va., shameful during an opening monologue in August, Mr. Fallon said it was my responsibility to stand up against intolerance and extremism as a human being.
For his part, Mr. Colbert is being true to the left-leaning political comedy he practiced, in character, on his old show, The Colbert Report, on Comedy Central, where he and Jon Stewart initially set the new tone were seeing today.
Yet through the first half of the election campaign, in his new place on CBS, he did not embrace his politics.
As his show struggled, critics and late-night insiders debated whether CBS was restraining him or he was restraining himself.
His increasing turn toward Trump jokes as the campaign wore on gave Mr. Colbert and CBS what they needed: ratings, which are, after all, network televisions answer to liquid courage.
Mr. Trump doesnt seem likely to rob Mr. Colbert and his cohorts of material any time soon.
To have the president trying to intimidate people  I wanted to send a message that I dont condone that, Thomas said, echoing the opinion of most N.F.L.
players.
Im not O.K.
with somebody trying to prevent someone from standing up for what they think is important.
Photo

But the acts of defiance received a far more mixed reception from fans, both in the stadiums and on social media, suggesting that what were promoted as acts of unity might have exacerbated a divide and dragged yet another of the countrys institutions into the turbulent cross currents of race and politics.
At Lincoln Financial Field in Philadelphia, videos posted on social media showed some Eagles fans yelling at anti-Trump protesters holding placards.
At MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J., before the Jets played the Dolphins, many fans, a majority of them white, said they did not support the anthem protests but also did not agree with the presidents view that players should be fired because of them.
Im a Republican who voted for him, but I think this is a battle he doesnt need to get into, said Greg Zaccaria, 61, from White Plains, who said he had been a Jets season-ticket holder since 1978.
Yet he objected to the anthem protests, saying, I understand what theyre trying to get at, I just think there are better ways of expressing yourself.
Mr. Trump, in a speech on Friday and a weekend-long series of tweets, had all but baited athletes and the league to respond by saying that those who do not stand for the anthem should be fired.
He added that the league was in decline for tolerating the protests and for taking steps to reduce brain damage among players.
As the sideline demonstrations unfolded on Sunday, Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter: Great solidarity for our national anthem and for our Country.
Standing with locked arms is good, kneeling is not acceptable.
Bad ratings!
Photo

And before boarding Air Force One in the evening, Mr. Trump told reporters that his comments had nothing to do with race or anything else  this has to do with respect for our country and respect for our flag.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Still, players and team officials said they had made the gestures, including locking arms, in solidarity with players who had demonstrated during the anthem, not to support Mr. Trump.
There was a variety of protests on the sidelines Sunday.
All but one player from the Pittsburgh Steelers, one of the leagues most celebrated teams, refused to go out for the anthem.
The lone exception was Alejandro Villanueva, a veteran of the war in Afghanistan.
The Steelers, who were playing the Bears, were booed heavily by fans in Chicago when they ran onto the field after the anthem.
The Steelers, along with the Tennessee Titans and the Seattle Seahawks, who were playing each other and similarly skipped the anthem, broke a league rule requiring athletes to be present for the anthem, though a league executive said they would not be penalized.
We will not stand for the injustice that has plagued people of color in this country, Seahawks players said in a statement before the game.
Out of love for our country and in honor of the sacrifices made on our behalf, we unite to oppose those that would deny our most basic freedoms.
Even stars who normally shy from controversy took a stand.
Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers posted a photograph of himself kneeling with three of his teammates during warm-ups before the game, and New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady, a supporter of the president, liked Rodgerss photo.
Later, before the Patriots game against the Houston Texans in Foxborough, Mass., Brady locked arms with a teammate on the field and placed his hand over his heart during the anthem.
Rodgers stood during the anthem, but three of his teammates sat on the bench.
A dozen or so Patriots knelt during the anthem, prompting some fans at Gillette Stadium to boo.
Still, one of the more surprising reactions came from the Patriots owner, Robert K. Kraft, a friend and campaign donor of the president who has invited Mr. Trump to sit with him at home games, as well as from other owners who were considered bedrock supporters of the president.
I am deeply disappointed by the tone of the comments made by the President on Friday, Kraft said in a statement hours before the New England game, adding that he supported players right to peacefully affect social change and raise awareness in a manner that they feel is most impactful.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

E. Stanley Kroenke, the owner of the Los Angeles Rams, and Martha Firestone Ford, the owner of the Detroit Lions, both of whom lean to the right politically, also scolded the president.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Ford said negative and disrespectful comments were contrary to the founding principles of our country, and we do not support those comments or opinions.
She and the Atlanta Falcons owner, Arthur M. Blank, who donates to many Democratic causes, linked arms with players during the anthem before the Falcons-Lions game in Detroit.
The singer Rico LaVelle went down on one knee as he finished singing the anthem.
The demonstrations intensified what was already a divisive debate that began last season when Colin Kaepernick, then a quarterback for the San Francisco 49ers, began kneeling during the playing of the national anthem, to highlight, he has said, police brutality and racial injustice.
He left the team after last season and has not played in the league since, inspiring questions over whether teams are punishing him, while many other players have knelt or made gestures in support of him or other social causes during the anthem.
Kaepernick has not commented, and his social media accounts were largely quiet on the president and the new round of protests.
Photo

But the fallout from Mr. Trumps remarks spilled over into other sports.
In a tweet Friday, Mr. Trump disinvited the Golden State Warriors, the N.B.A.
champions, to any traditional White House visit, after members of the team, including its biggest star, Stephen Curry, were critical of him.
But on Sunday, the N.H.L.
champion Pittsburgh Penguins said they would go to the White House, and declared such visits to be free of politics.
Nascar team owners went a step further, saying they would not tolerate drivers who protested during the anthem.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

To promote the idea of the N.F.L.
as a unifying force, the league was planning to replay a television ad called Inside These Lines on NBC on Sunday night when the Oakland Raiders played the Washington Redskins outside the nations capital.
While none of the Jets players knelt during the playing of the anthem, they locked arms on the sideline and were joined by some of the teams administrators.
On the other side of the field, four Miami Dolphins players  Maurice Smith, Kenny Stills, Thomas and Laremy Tunsil  knelt, while the teams owner, Stephen M. Ross, locked arms with two of his players.
Two years ago, Mr. Ross started a nonprofit organization to combat racism and discrimination.
Outside the stadium in East Rutherford, Julie and Vin Santomero, who brought their sons to the game, said they also did not want to see protests at a sporting event because they attended games to get away from politics.
Its a football game, Mrs. Santomero said.
Theyre here to play the game.
Jesse Melendez, 29, of Dix Hills, N.Y.; Jeanna Pulistar, 29, of Lindenhurst, N.Y.; Roger Guevara, 29, of Yonkers; and Genesis Pineda, 27, of Yonkers, took the opposing view by supporting the N.F.L.
players right to protest during the anthem.
People dont get mad when people are shot or killed, but theyre getting mad because a football player is kneeling or raising a fist, said Melendez, who is African-American.
The double standard is crazy.
Still, the presidents message had reached the fans, here and elsewhere, and it got some families talking and other families not talking because of disagreements.
Many noted that in this country, players were lucky to be able to express whatever view they wanted.
But drawing attention to police brutality and racial inequality by going down on one knee during the national anthem, they said, was inappropriate because it was disrespectful to the nations veterans who fought for that very freedom of expression.
Joe Barone, 27, an accountant from Rhode Island sitting under the shade of a tent with a 60-inch television, said both sides are wrong.
The players should respect the flag, he said, but Mr. Trump shouldnt have called the players what he did, using the phrase son of a bitch.
There are things wrong in this country, but there are better ways to show it, Mr. Barone said.
The players message is not coming across clearly.
Donna Murray, an office worker from Rhode Island who described herself as old enough to vote, said the players had not picked the most effective way to make their point.
When Im in Canada, Ill stand for their national anthem, she said.
Its not that she cares about Canada, per se, she said, but standing is the respectful thing to do.
The players, however, had muddied the waters by mixing up politics in the incongruous setting of football, she said.
Photo

If you want to protest, go somewhere else, she said.
I think if they did it in a different platform, more people would listen.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

She herself had mixed feelings about the whole brouhaha.
The players should show respect for the people who fought for this country, she said, but the president went too far in saying the players who kneel should be fired.
Many agreed that Mr. Trump had stepped over a line.
Mel Casa, 74, who owns a hair salon, and his son Robert, 52, who served in the Air Force and works with computers, had rolled out an American flag on their tailgate.
The father said he voted for Mr. Trump but regretted it because the president is a bully and has no filter when he speaks.
And this time, he said, as he puffed on a big Dominican cigar, Mr. Trump had really gone overboard.
He said it was ludicrous to expect that 70,000 people would walk out of Gillette Stadium if players went down on their knees.
Connor Bouvier, 13, an eighth grader from New Hampshire, said that players kneeling during the anthem was disrespectful.
Asked whether he sided with the president on this issue, Connor said yes but he was not as arrogant as he is.
His grandfather Philippe Bouvier, 72, a retired pharmacist who did not vote for Mr. Trump, was not happy about the presidents blue comments about the players.
Its not proper talk from a leader, Mr. Bouvier said.
The president of the United States shouldnt have to be bleeped out.
A group of three men, stealing some shade from someone elses tent while their plates of fried shrimp, fried scallops and fried Twinkies baked in the sun, were deeply divided.
Derek Nelson, 31, a martial arts instructor from New Hampshire who said he voted for Hillary Clinton, applauded the players for taking a stand for what they believe in, and said that kneeling was a respectful act, done quietly and not interfering with anyone elses rights.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

His friend Jim Hatch, 50, a business owner, said that the players behavior was indefensible, though he defended their right to act however they wanted.
You have the right to do it all day long and thats part of America, he said, and in other countries youd get shot.
But they agreed that the president was trying to shore up his conservative supporters.
Trump knows his base doesnt like it, Mr. Hatch said of the players kneeling.
Hes not stupid.
He knows what works.
Thats votes.
Thats 100 percent votes.
At other stadiums, most football fans wished the president had stayed out of this realm.
At MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J., home of the Jets, Greg Zaccaria, 61, from White Plains, said he was a Republican who voted for Mr. Trump but this is a battle he doesnt need to get into.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Julie and Vin Santomero and their sons Will and Jack of Wilton, Conn., said they had discussed the protests during the drive to the game.
These kids have no idea what the players are protesting, Ms. Santomero said as the family grilled corn on the cob.
But she said she did not like the protests.
Its a football game, she said.
Theyre here to play the game.
Maybe after they retire they can go into politics like a lot of them do.
Her husband nodded.
Maybe its not the proper forum, he said.
Not that theyre right or wrong either way.
Sports is meant to be a departure.
A group of people playing beer pong nearby had also been talking about Mr. Trumps comments on their way to the game.
All of them supported the protests.
Theyre protesting because people are dying, said Jesse Melendez, 29, of Dix Hills, N.Y. People dont get mad when people are shot or killed, but theyre getting mad because a football player is kneeling or raising a fist.
The double standard is crazy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He said that African-Americans in particular were paying close attention to who was protesting and who was not.
He said those who do not kneel would be seen as sellouts thinking only of securing their paychecks.
Jeanna Pulistar, 29 of Lindenhurst, N.Y., said, I understand that the national anthem is important, but at the same time, what other time is there to stand up together for something you believe in?
Colleen Channer, who was walking through the parking lot, said of Mr. Trump, Can stupid get stupider?
She said the president should not be favoring one group of people over another.
Hes supposed to be neutral and hes not.
In Charlotte, at Bank of America Stadium, Keith Watson, who was tailgating with his family, thought Mr. Trumps comments were just plain dumb.
Hes more about division than coming together, he said.
Mr. Watson, who was in the military last year when Colin Kaepernick, then a San Francisco 49ers quarterback, first began kneeling as a protest, said he did not have a problem with it.
As far as Im concerned, thats why Im in the military, to give him the right to express himself any way he wants to, short of yelling fire!
in a crowded theater, he said.
Kneeling as a protest is unobtrusive, nonviolent, he said.
Its a silent protest.
Silent but visual.
Photo

Jay Kemp, a former Marine who was with his family at a fan fest near the Charlotte stadium, said he personally would not take a knee during the national anthem but said he fought for the right of anyone else to do so.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I find it hard to swallow that the president would attack professional athletes for their freedom of speech, and a freedom that I spent 21 years protecting, Mr. Kemp said.
They could be exercising their freedom of speech to promote hate or promote something else.
But theyre doing it in a nonviolent fashion and theyre exercising their right.
Besides, he said, kneeling is not about disrespecting the country.
Its a protest against police brutality and racism, he said.
And it has inspired him to teach his son, who is 7, to stand up for what he believes is right.
Kevin Mac learned in a phone call outside the stadium in Charlotte that the entire Pittsburgh Steelers team had decided to wait until the national anthem was over before taking the field in Chicago.
Originally from Pittsburgh, Mr. Mac angrily told his wife, Kelly, that he would no longer support the Steelers  and she said she would give up her season tickets to Panthers games if any players knelt.
Im just blown away, she said.
If you cant respect our country with the national anthem, then you need to go.
She said it was a terrible example to set for children.
In Detroit, near Ford Field, where the Hatch family was tailgating, Morgan Hatch, 40, said his 12-year-old twins, Alex and Jackson, were following the controversy closer than he was.
I will respect the players more if they do kneel, because they are doing what they feel is right to do, Alex said.
Jackson agreed, saying the players were simply exercising their rights.
It might look weird or something during the national anthem, but that should be O.K., he said.
Tailgating nearby was Carlos Neal, 48, who was tending to multiple grills at two tents and a pop-up camper.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He said he always kneels in protest during the national anthem, has been doing it for a while and would do it today as he watched the Lions game on television in a parking lot.
I am with the players all the way, he said.
I respect every single one of them if they protest, and even if they dont, I still respect them for their rights.
As for the president, he added: Trumps has got to lay off that Instagram and Twitter crack, put his phone down and stop all this nonsense.
Somebody needs to take that phone away from him.
We got real problems going on in this world, and this is what he wants to do?
No sir.
Many fans at FedEx Field could be heard booing the players while they sat.
Michele Tafoya reported that Raiders Coach Jack Del Rio told her the Raiders players would have preferred to stay in the locker room, but because of the demands of prime-time television they would have likely incurred a delay of game penalty.
The protests were part of a massive show of solidarity in the face of harsh criticism by President Trump, who had called for protesting players to be fired.
The days slate of games started early, with Baltimore and Jacksonville facing off in London, meaning the protests occurred over a span of 11 hours.
-

Want the big sports news, highlights and analysis from a rotating cast of Times journalists, delivered to your inbox once a week?
Click here to receive our weekly Sports newsletter.
Trump Sounds Off Again

Every N.F.L.
game today has carried some level of demonstration by players, with some teams going as far as not appearing on the field for the national anthem.
But nearly nine hours after the games had begun, President Trump once again took to Twitter to condemn the players who choose not to stand for the anthem, and the league that allows it.
It was his 12th sports-related tweet or retweet in a 36-hour period.
Players Explain Why They Made a Statement

Miami Dolphins tight end Julius Thomas, who previously had stood during the anthem, instead knelt on Sunday with three teammates.
Asked what had changed for him, he said: To have the president trying to intimidate people  I wanted to send a message that I dont condone that.
Im not O.K.
with somebody trying to prevent someone from standing up for what they think is important.
Lots of people dont have a voice, and I wanted to tell those folks that theyre not alone.
I used my position to try to empower everybody who seeks equality.
LeSean McCoy, a running back for the Buffalo Bills, also addressed the issue following his game against the Denver Broncos.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I cant stand and support something where our leader of this country is just acting like a jerk, you know, angry and upset about N.F.L.
players protesting in a peaceful manner, McCoy said.
Drew Brees, quarterback for the New Orleans Saints, said: I disagree with what the president said and how he said it.
I think its very unbecoming of the office of President of the United States to talk like that to the great people like that.
And obviously hes disappointed a lot of people.
But as it pertains to the national anthem, I will always feel that if you are an American that the national anthem is the opportunity for us all to stand up together, to be unified and to show respect for our country.
Photo

Seahawks and Titans Stay in Locker Rooms

Neither the Seattle Seahawks nor the Tennessee Titans took the field for Meghan Linseys singing of the national anthem in Nashville.
While the Titans not participating was somewhat of a surprise, the Seahawks had announced in advance that they would not be on the field.
Their statement said:

As a team, we have decided we will not participate in the national anthem.
We will not stand for the injustice that has plagued people of color in this country.
Out of love for our country and in honor of the sacrifices made on our behalf, we unite to oppose those that would deny our most basic freedoms.
We remain committed in continuing to work towards equality and justice for all.
Respectfully, The Players of the Seattle Seahawks.
The complete absence of players made for a bizarre scene where team mascots and game officials were the only things the television cameras had to focus on besides the flag and Linsey.
Unlike at some other stadiums, where fans booed at the protests, the fans in Nashville were eerily quiet during the anthem, and after its conclusion Linsey took a knee on the field.
An N.F.L.
executive said teams that did not take the field during the playing of the national anthem, including the Steelers, would not be fined.
According to league rules, all teams are required to be on the sideline during the national anthem, though they do not specify whether players must stand.
Trump Says Locking Arms Is Good, Kneeling Isnt

At 2:20 p.m. Eastern, more than five hours into the slate of games and about eight hours after tweeting that fans should boycott games, Mr. Trump again weighed in on the national anthem demonstrations, issuing his approval for the locking of arms, while still condemning the players who chose to kneel.
The tweet appeared to be Mr. Trump suggesting that the players choosing to lock arms were showing support of the anthem, rather than protesting his remarks.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Odell Beckham Jr. Raises Fist After Touchdown

The protests did not all happen before the games.
When the Giants tied the score in the second half of their loss to the Philadelphia Eagles, Odell Beckham Jr. chose to celebrate by dropping the ball and standing in the end zone with his fist raised above his head in a protest that has been done by black athletes going back to the 1960s.
After the brief demonstration, Beckham ran to the sideline to celebrate the score in a more traditional fashion.
Beckham had been flagged earlier for unsportsmanlike conduct when he celebrated a touchdown by impersonating a dog urinating.
When asked about the celebration and penalty, Beckham told reporters, Im a dog, so I acted like a dog.
How Players and Teams in Other Sports Reacted

 On Saturday, a rookie catcher with the Oakland Athletics became the first player to demonstrate during the national anthem at a Major League Baseball game.
We have a racial divide thats being practiced from the highest power we have in this country, the player, Bruce Maxwell, told The San Francisco Chronicle.
On Saturday night, during an appearance at the Global Citizen Festival in New York City, the singer Stevie Wonder kneeled in prayer.
Tonight, Im taking a knee for America.
But not just one knee.
Im taking both knees, he said.
On Sunday morning, the Stanley Cup champion Pittsburgh Penguins said in a statement that they would visit the White House.
Mr. Trump tweeted his approval, calling the Penguins a Great team!
(A day earlier, Mr. Trump had tweeted to disinvite the N.B.A.s Golden State Warriors to the White House because of the star point guard Stephen Currys opposition.)
On Sunday afternoon, athletes demonstrated ahead of a W.N.B.A.
finals game at Williams Arena in Minneapolis.
The Los Angeles Sparks stayed in their locker room during the national anthem, while the Minnesota Lynx stood with their arms linked together.
At a Nascar race in New Hampshire on Sunday afternoon, The Associated Press reported that no team members appeared to demonstrate while the anthem played.
The Hall of Fame driver Richard Petty said that anyone who does not stand up for the anthem ought to be out of the country.
Period.
He added that anyone at his company who protested the anthem should be fired.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Fans Divided on Player Demonstrations

The New York Times sent several reporters to N.F.L.
games to ask fans what they thought of the presidents criticisms and the players protests.
Perhaps surprising to no one, all sides of the debate still have adherents, even if dozens of prominent athletes and many N.F.L.
owners  a deeply conservative group of businessmen  seem to agree on some basic things.
Greg Zaccaria, 61, from White Plains, N.Y., has been a Jets season-ticket holder since 1978.
He was in the MetLife Stadium parking lot before the Jets played the Dolphins:

Im a Republican who voted for him, but I think this is a battle he doesnt need to get into, he said about President Trump.
Asked his opinion of the protests, Zaccaria said: I dont support it.
I understand what theyre trying to get at, I just think there are better ways of expressing yourself.
I feel like if the media didnt make a big deal of it  I remember that for years and years they didnt show the anthem  and now all of a sudden this is an issue.
I feel like if you just let these guys do their thing and we could all move on.
Bill Pennington

 Twin brothers Alex and Jackson Hatch, 12, from Loves Park, Ill., were outside Ford Field in Detroit before the Lions played the Atlanta Falcons:

I will respect the players more if they do kneel, because they are doing what they feel is right to do, Alex said.
I know about what Colin Kaepernick is doing, he started kneeling a long time ago.
Maybe the others are doing it to be with him too.
I do not think it is a bad thing for people to kneel, they are showing what their rights are, Jackson said.
It might look weird or something during the national anthem but that should be O.K.
Joanne Gerstner

Kaepernick Offers a Subtle Reminder of Why This All Started

As President Trump, the N.F.L.
and the nation waged a fierce debate about the appropriate nature of national anthem protests, the man who started that debate, Colin Kaepernick, was nowhere in sight.
Instead, Kaepernick spent part of his day retweeting messages about the protests and photos of players who warmed up for their games in #IMWITHKAP T-shirts.
But he also highlighted one that raised a point largely absent in this weekends discussion: that Kaepernicks protests were never about President Trump, but instead an effort to raise the issue of racial injustice.
Kaepernicks anthem protests began during the 2016 preseason, under a different president and largely unnoticed at first, in the wake of several high-profile incidents in which black Americans were killed during interactions with police officers.
Initially, Kaepernick protested by sitting down.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color, he told NFL Media at the time.
To me, this is bigger than football and it would be selfish on my part to look the other way.
After his seated protests drew scrutiny, Kaepernick began kneeling instead, a change that he said allowed him to show respect while continuing to press his point.
Several N.F.L.
players joined him in solidarity, as did athletes in other sports and leagues.
Kaepernick, who has not addressed the news media since last season, now focuses his energies, and his time, on education and awareness of causes important to him.
John Branch of The Times wrote about that ongoing political awakening this month.
Not Everyone Supports Anthem Demonstrations

The reaction to the N.F.L.
anthem demonstrations was sharply divided on social media, with many fans taking the players to task for their perceived disrespect for the flag, and America.
Others disagreed with the presidents statements and backed the players.
Steve King, a Republican congressman from Iowa, echoed President Trump by urging owners to fire players who did not stand.
The conservative commentator Dinesh DSouza urged fans to boo those players.
The former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee said on Fox News, I wish that some of these players who get on one knee would get on both knees and thank God they live in the United States.
Eric H. Holder Jr., a former U.S. Attorney General, provided a history lesson:

Paul Bailey, a state senator from Tennessee, sent a warning to the Titans:

Clay Travis, a Fox Sports contributor, tweeted: Sports medias outraged over Trump NFL anthem comments.
Yet vast majority of fans agree.
Huge disconnect in sports between fans/media.
Others, without the platform of public office or celebrity status, also criticized the players who demonstrated:

Photo

Tom Brady Stands With Patriots

Patriots quarterback Tom Brady, who is friends with Mr. Trump and whose politics have been a cause of much speculation, joined his teammates in locking arms during the anthem before their game against the Houston Texans in Foxborough, Mass.
Brady, who has yet to address Trumps recent criticisms, also put his hand over his heart.
While Brady and teammate Phillip Dorsett locked arms, several other Patriots took a knee.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Bill Belichick, the Patriots coach, stood next to Brady during the anthem with his arms crossed.
Earlier in the day, the Patriots owner Robert K. Kraft issued a statement condemning Trumps attack on the league, saying he was deeply disappointed by the tone of the comments made by the President on Friday.
National Anthem Singer Takes a Knee

In a first for anthem demonstrations in the N.F.L., Rico Lavelle, who sang the anthem in Detroit for the Lions-Falcons game, sank to one knee and raised a fist at the conclusion.
Steelers Dont Participate in Anthem

The Steelers did not emerge from the locker room in Chicago during the national anthem before their game against the Bears.
Steelers Coach Mike Tomlin said the team would be unified in their actions, and the empty Pittsburgh bench was a stark image of the teams unity.
Were not going to play politics, Coach Mike Tomlin told CBS before the game.
Were football players, were football coaches.
Were not participating in the anthem today.
Not to be disrespectful to the anthem, but to remove ourselves from this circumstance.
People shouldnt have to choose.
If a guy wants to go about his normal business and participate in the anthem, he shouldnt have to be forced to choose sides.
If a guy feels the need to do something, he shouldnt be separated from his teammate who chooses not to.
So were not participating today.
Tomlin came out alone for the anthem and stood at midfield with his hands behind his back.
Steelers offensive lineman Alejandro Villanueva, a captain in the U.S. Army, stood by the tunnel entrance with his hand over his heart during the ceremony.
Rex Ryan Regrets Supporting Trump

Rex Ryan, the former Jets and Bills coach who once introduced then-presidential candidate Donald Trump at a rally in Buffalo, expressed his regret on the morning show Sunday N.F.L.
Countdown.
Everyones always been united.
Yeah, the views are different but let me tell you: Im pissed off, said Ryan, who now works as an ESPN commentator.
Ill be honest with you.
Because I supported Donald Trump.
When he asked me to introduce him at a rally in Buffalo, I did that.
But Im reading these comments and its appalling to me and Im sure its appalling to almost any citizen in our country.
It should be.
Video

Jaguars and Ravens Kneel and Lock Arms During Anthem

In a pointed rebuke of President Trumps call for N.F.L.
owners to fire players who protest during the national anthem, Shahid Khan, the only Muslim owner in the league, locked arms with his Jacksonville Jaguars players on Sunday before their game in London.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

During the national anthem, Khan locked arms with tight end Marcedes Lewis and linebacker Telvin Smith, both of whom are black, on the sideline to show unity with his players, who are trying to highlight social injustice and police brutality against African-Americans.
While the N.F.L.
and several owners issued statements on Saturday saying they supported the players protests and were unhappy with the presidents comments, Khan was the first owner to stand with his players.
Khan is a Republican who contributed money to the presidents inauguration, and he has said he supports the presidents economic policies.
But he is also an immigrant and a Muslim, two groups that the president has routinely attacked.
In February, Khan, who is Pakistani-American, said he opposed the presidents attempt to bar people from some predominantly Muslim countries from entering the United States.
Khans actions will put the spotlight on other team owners.
Owners of the Bills, Lions, Dolphins, Falcons, Rams and Giants were among those who issued statements opposing the presidents comments.
But many prominent owners, including Jerry Jones of the Cowboys and Woody Johnson of the Jets, were silent.
Patriots Owner Robert Kraft Condemns Trumps Criticism

President Trump doubled down on his criticism of N.F.L.
players who take a knee during the national anthem, saying fans should boycott games unless the players are fired or suspended.
Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the Patriots and a longtime friend of the presidents, was among the first to reply, saying in a statement:

I am deeply disappointed by the tone of the comments made by the President on Friday.
I am proud to be associated with so many players who make such tremendous contributions in positively impacting our communities.
Their efforts, both on and off the field, help bring people together and make our community stronger.
There is no greater unifier in this country than sports, and unfortunately, nothing more divisive than politics.
N.F.L.
Owners Add Their Voices to the Chorus

N.F.L.
owners, most of them conservative and many of them large donors to President Trump, joined with Kraft and backed their players rights to protest during the national anthem and condemned Trumps criticism.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Colts owner Jim Irsay said, I am troubled by the presidents recent comments about our league and our players.
The Eagles owner Jeffrey Lurie said, I support them as they take their courage, character and commitment into our communities to make them better or to call attention to injustice.
The Chargers owner Dean Spanos said, The N.F.L.
and its players, more than anything, have been a force for good.
From Jimmy Haslam, owner of the Cleveland Browns:

We must not let misguided, uninformed and divisive comments from the President or anyone else deter us from our efforts to unify.
The Bears chairman George H. McCaskey said in a statement that what makes this the greatest country in the world are the liberties it was founded upon and the freedom to express oneself in a respectful and peaceful manner.
He said the franchise was unified by this divisive political situation.
On the Field

 It looked as if the New England Patriots (2-1) were going to be beaten at home by a rookie quarterback, but Tom Brady led a furious fourth-quarter drive that went 75 yards in eight plays, scoring on a 25-yard touchdown pass to Brandin Cooks.
After a 2-point conversion, the Patriots came away with a 36-33 victory, while Deshaun Watson and the Houston Texans (1-2) were sent home empty-handed despite leading with 23 seconds remaining.
Aaron Rodgers got the Green Bay Packers (2-1) into overtime with a late touchdown throw, and after his defense came through with a big stop, he found Geronimo Allison for a 72-yard catch-and-run that set up Mason Crosbys game-winning 27-yard field goal.
The winless Cincinnati Bengals, who led 21-7 at halftime, were left with a 30-27 loss.
Russell Wilson threw for 373 yards and four touchdowns, but a rare bad day for the defense of the Seattle Seahawks (1-2) resulted in a 33-27 loss to the Tennessee Titans (2-1).
The usually formidable Seattle defense allowed 195 yards on the ground, which helped the Titans build a 30-14 lead that gave them enough cushion to survive a late surge by the Seahawks.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 Kareem Hunt continued to make the N.F.L.
look easy.
The rookie running back of the Kansas City Chiefs (3-0) rushed for 172 yards and one touchdown in a 24-10 victory over the Los Angeles Chargers (0-3).
Hunt now has 538 yards from scrimmage in the first three games of his career.
The only player with more yards in his first three games was Billy Sims, who had 562 yards with the 1980 Detroit Lions.
The Denver Broncos (2-1) turned the ball over on their final four possessions in a 26-16 loss to the Buffalo Bills.
Buffalo survived a subpar effort from the teams best player, LeSean McCoy, who managed just 21 yards on 14 carries.
Tyrod Taylor provided plenty of offense, completing 20 of 26 passes for 213 yards and two touchdowns.
Broncos quarterback Trevor Siemian was brutal a week after leading his team to an upset victory over Dallas.
He threw two interceptions and had a passer rating of 58.2.
Jordan Howard ran in a 19-yard touchdown in overtime that gave the Chicago Bears (1-2) a shocking 23-17 upset of the Pittsburgh Steelers (2-1).
Given a chance to win the game after being tied 17-17 at the end of regulation, the Bears needed just four running plays to score, with Howard and Tarik Cohen leading them to victory.
Howard finished with 23 carries for 138 yards and two touchdowns.
Matthew Stafford of the Detroit Lions (2-1) appeared to have thrown a game-winning touchdown pass to Golden Tate with 12 seconds remaining, but after a review it was determined that Tates knee had hit the ground before he crossed the goal line.
The ruling carried with it a mandatory 10-second running of the clock, which could have been halted with a timeout if the Lions had any remaining.
With that call, the Atlanta Falcons (3-0) escaped Detroit with a 30-26 victory.
Case Keenum and Stefon Diggs looked like stars as the Minnesota Vikings (2-1) hardly seemed to miss the injured Sam Bradford in a 34-17 victory over the Tampa Bay Buccaneers (1-1).
Keenum threw three touchdown passes, Diggs had eight receptions for 173 yards and two touchdowns, and Dalvin Cook ran for 97 yards in a well-balanced offensive effort.
Blake Bortles, a name synonymous with quarterback mediocrity, looked like Peyton Manning, throwing for four touchdowns as the Jacksonville Jaguars (2-1) romped past the Baltimore Ravens (2-1) in London, 44-7.
Jay Cutler and Matt Haack (Miamis punter) each threw interceptions, Jay Ajayi was completely unable to make a dent in the running game, and the Miami Dolphins lost to the Jets, 20-6.
The Jets (1-2) outplayed the Dolphins (1-1) in every facet of the game.
Cam Newton threw three interceptions, Drew Brees threw three touchdown passes, and the New Orleans Saints (1-2) upset the Carolina Panthers (2-1), 34-13.
Carolinas defense had not allowed a touchdown coming into the game, but the Saints managed four, while the much-maligned New Orleans defense played one of the teams best games in recent memory.
In a battle of previously winless teams, the Indianapolis Colts (1-2) beat the Cleveland Browns (0-3) thanks to a great effort by Jacoby Brissett, the young quarterback brought over from New England to bridge the gap until Andrew Luck can recover from shoulder surgery.
It was the 15th consecutive road defeat for Cleveland.
Brissett was a star, completing 17 of 24 passes for 259 yards and one touchdown while carrying the ball five times for 14 yards and two scores.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 In Sunday night action, the Redskins (2-1) stymied the Raiders (2-1), 27-10.
Washington outgained Oakland, 472 yards to 128, and held Marshawn Lynch to just 18 yards rushing.
This is a barely recognizable president.
It also is a barely recognizable generation of pro athletes.
Thank God for the latter.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Just as the president lays his hand on the third rail of race, the athletes are responding.
The N.B.A.
point guard Chris Paul:

To which LeBron James added his own message:

And Bishop Sankey, a Vikings running back:

Other athletes and the presidents of the N.F.L.
and N.B.A.
player unions have followed suit.
But in the surest and most striking sign of tectonic movements, N.F.L.
Commissioner Roger Goodell, as careful and conservative a leader as youll find in pro sports, felt compelled to call out the president on Saturday.
(Trump, in an Emperor Nero complaining about the desultory quality of the gladiators moment, also lamented in Alabama that the N.F.L.
had become insufficiently violent.)
Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the N.F.L., our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities, Goodell said in a statement.
Photo

Its not clear how this plays with Goodells masters in N.F.L.
ownership.
They donated many millions to Trumps presidential campaign; the New England Patriots owner, Robert K. Kraft, showered $1 million on the inaugural and has been a vocal ally; and the Patriots coach, Bill Belichick, wrote a letter endorsing him last fall.
To summarize this exquisite collision of sports, politics and business: The 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick knelt during the national anthem last season, stirring a national debate about patriotism and the treatment of blacks by the police.
For that, the N.F.L.
owners appear to have blackballed him from the league this year.
For that, more players have taken up Kaepernicks cause.
And for that, President Trump disparaged the league and challenged the owners to fire players for exercising their right to free speech  which they have effectively done to Kaepernick already.
And now Kaepernicks once lonely protest suddenly has many more supporters.
Let me pause here.
For more than a decade, athletes have been chipping at the shells that so many owners, college boosters and media executives had wished upon them.
College athletes have tried to organize unions and challenged the N.C.A.A.
in court.
N.F.L.
players have revitalized their once broken-down union; N.B.A.
stars have spoken out on all manner of issues.
They have been active citizens, and that is stirring.
This cuts both ways.
If an athlete were to engage in protests against, say, abortion or gay rights, that would be no less in keeping with our nations finest free speech traditions.
Its striking how completely the president has stood this principle on its head.
He taunted N.F.L.
owners, urging them to fire players who engage in anthem protests.
Photo

Theyll be the most popular person in this country, Trump said, because thats a total disrespect of our heritage, thats a total disrespect of everything that we stand for.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The presidents invocation of heritage has become his favorite dog whistle; it also deeply misconstrues our traditions.
Ill recruit my departed father into this scrum.
Like many young men of his generation, he volunteered to fight in World War II, and he flew missions on a B-17 bomber.
Years later, when Vietnam and civil rights and labor struggles bubbled, and protesters sat out anthems and even burned flags, his view was unwavering: He had fought for an America in which citizens could speak and dissent freely and act morally.
Whats notable is how measured the athletes have tried to remain, until poked and prodded.
James appeared in a video for Michael Bloombergs global forum.
I hope and I pray that all of you know how much all of us need you now, he told the assembled corporate and societal leaders.
Curry has not been as explicitly political as James in recent years, but he did not sidestep the moment.
President Trump said he was barring Curry from the White House, but Curry had already made a case for not going.
By acting and not going, hopefully that will inspire some change, he said, when it comes to what we tolerate in this country and what is accepted and what we turn a blind eye to.
The president is an expert provocateur, and one does well not to underrate him.
But notice how the athletes eyes are so wide open.
Photo

HUNTSVILLE, Ala.  President Trump said on Friday night that N.F.L.
owners should fire players who kneel during the national anthem, and he encouraged spectators to walk out of stadiums in protest.
In an extended riff during a speech in Alabama, Trump also bemoaned what he sees as less violence in football games.
Theyre ruining the game, he complained.
Several athletes, including a handful of N.F.L.
players, have refused to stand during The Star-Spangled Banner to protest of the treatment of minorities by the police.
Quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who started the trend last year when he played for the San Francisco 49ers, has not been signed by a team for this season.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Trump says those players are disrespecting the flag and deserve to lose their jobs.
Thats a total disrespect of our heritage.
Thats a total disrespect of everything that we stand for, he said, encouraging owners to act.
Mr. Hernandez stood trial for first-degree murder in Massachusetts, where state law requires the government to prove all elements of a crime, including criminal responsibility, beyond a reasonable doubt.
The prosecution was able to provide the details of Mr. Lloyds murder with a tight timeline that placed Mr. Hernandez at the scene of the murder, though his lawyer maintained that his client was no more than a witness to the crime.
The government also provided a theory to establish Mr. Hernandezs motive to kill Mr. Lloyd  anger over gossip  and his ample opportunity to premeditate and deliberate.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But under the Massachusetts formulation of the insanity defense, if he were tried today, Mr. Hernandez might successfully assert that, when he killed Mr. Lloyd, he suffered a mental defect that rendered him substantially unable to conform his conduct to the requirements of the law, utterly unable to make himself behave as the law requires.
Could the evidence of C.T.E.
now create a reasonable doubt about his criminal responsibility?
Almost certainly.
Football players in the United States are disproportionately charged with crimes of violence as compared with other professional athletes.
One explanation might suggest that participating in a sport that demands aggression and violence selects the most aggressive and violent men for its ranks.
An alternative but equally simple explanation might be that aggressive and violent men are naturally drawn to compete in an aggressive and violent sport.
And, of course, when large, strong men who have been taught to be aggressive find themselves in a conflict, they are more than capable of responding with brutal force.
After all, thats what theyre paid to do on the football field.
But C.T.E.
deprives such players of the ability to handle disputes rationally.
Indeed, being afflicted with C.T.E.
may well equate to insanity.
Thats enough to excuse  at least legally  the potentially criminal, violent actions of former N.F.L.
players in many states.
The Boston University study was published too late to help Aaron Hernandez.
He had died  probably because his damaged brain could not reason well enough to prevent him from hanging himself  several weeks earlier.
But given what we now know about the prevalence of C.T.E.
in high-level athletes, especially football players, the field is open for lawyers to begin to show juries just why their clients are unable to conform their conduct and control their emotional impulses.
There are many avenues for intervention on behalf of the men who have spent years treating their heads like battering rams for high salaries.
For those men who commit violent crimes, the legal community might start by seeing them as mentally incapacitated individuals with significantly impaired impulse control.
Aaron Hernandez should be sitting in a therapeutic hospital receiving care for a profound brain injury.
Instead, his ashes sit with his family.
Suicide appears to be another result of C.T.E.
Because of the post-mortem C.T.E.
diagnosis, we now know there was substantial evidence that Mr. Hernandez should not have been convicted of first-degree murder.
Given the conclusive diagnosis of Stage 3 C.T.E., it is likely that a lifetime of playing football  not Mr. Hernandezs will  was to blame.
The science itself  like most attempts to link brain biology to behavior  is murkier.
In recent decades, researchers have made extraordinary strides in understanding the workings of brain cells, neural circuits and anatomy.
Photo

Yet drawing a direct line from those basic findings to what people do out in the world is dicey, given the ineffable interplay among circumstance, relationships and personality.
What scientists  from such diverse fields as psychiatry, neurology and substance use  can say is that the arrows seem to be pointing in the same direction.
A number of brain states raise the risk of acting out violently, and the evidence so far, while incomplete, suggests that C.T.E.
may be one of them.
Dr. Samuel Gandy, director of the N.F.L.
neurology program at Mount Sinai Medical Center, said his research showed that rage and irritability are far and away the most prominent symptoms among former players with likely C.T.E.
His group has identified 10 of 24 former players who probably have the disease.
Scientists at Boston University, who reported the findings on Mr. Hernandez, have described similar behavior in many of the more than 100 players they have evaluated.
The caveat for both research efforts is that these samples are selective: Almost all of the players had signs of possible C.T.E.
before being studied, which led the players and their families to participate and to donate their brains for research.
It may still be that most of the athletes in violent sports who develop the signature brain pathology, especially at modest levels, are no more irritable than anyone else.
But an important hint to the contrary comes from a more mature corner of brain science: dementia research.
People with advanced dementia often begin to act in uncharacteristically aggressive ways, as many caregivers can attest.
In a recent study of dementia patients, Swedish researchers found that 97 of 281 dementia patients had a history of aggression.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Those who acted out earliest in the progression of their disease had so-called frontotemporal degeneration  that is, damage concentrated in the frontal and temporal lobes of the brain.
This is where C.T.E.
shows up, too.
In frontotemporal degeneration, a purported association has been made with criminal behavior, said Kevin Bieniek, a research fellow in the Dickson Neuropathology Lab at the Mayo Clinic College of Medicine in Jacksonville, Fla.
Different disease, but some clinical and pathological parallels to C.T.E.
All of this is far from definitive, given the wide variety of factors that affect motivation and impulsive behavior.
Substance abuse is a prominent example.
Mr. Hernandez was no stranger to illicit drugs, according to testimony at his murder trial.
Studies strongly suggest that people who are mentally unstable, particularly those with severe paranoia, are more likely to become violent when under the influence of alcohol or other drugs.
Photo

The link between steroids  such as testosterone  and rage is another confounding factor.
It is rarely clear in mature athletes whether they have used performance-enhancing drugs, or how much.
Testosterone aggravates aggression in the absence of pathology, Dr. Gandy said.
If theres pathology, its likely to make things worse.
As cases like Mr. Hernandezs and others continue to move into the courts, judges will be making decisions based on limited, piecemeal scientific evidence.
These wont be easy decisions to make.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The only way to diagnose C.T.E.
is at autopsy.
A number of scientists, including Dr. Gandys group, are working to refine brain imaging tests intended to detect the signature pathology in living patients.
Those tests are not yet definitive.
Over the past decade, many courts have been reluctant to admit brain scans as exculpatory evidence.
Theres no serious argument about whether violence comes from the brain, said Owen Jones, director of the MacArthur Foundation Research Network on Law and Neuroscience at Vanderbilt University.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its just hard to make a credible claim that a particular brain injury has caused a particular act of violence.
Former players would also have to prove that the head hits they received in the N.F.L.
directly led to their troubles off the field, which is a high bar, especially for those, like Hernandez, who also played football in college and in childhood.
The league might also argue that Hernandez knew there was a risk he could be injured playing in the N.F.L., particularly because he had played the game for more than a decade before he was drafted.
Even if the league has a high probability of convincing a judge of all these arguments, the Hernandez familys lawyer, Jose Baez, might be banking on the N.F.L.
to settle the case to avoid bad publicity.
The league, though, is known to stand its ground because it wants to stop other players from suing as well.
Theres always a shot in the dark to bring the league to the table, said Jodi Balsam, a former lawyer at the N.F.L.
who teaches at Brooklyn Law School.
These cases come up all the time, and there will be more of them if they settle this without a fight.
Indeed, in a conference call with reporters on Friday, Joe Lockhart, a spokesman for the league, said that the N.F.L.
would vigorously fight the suit and that the Hernandez family would face significant legal issues.
Any attempt here to paint Aaron Hernandez as a victim, we believe, is misguided, he added.
Lockhart also cast doubt on those who are trying to connect football to C.T.E., or chronic traumatic encephalopathy, as well as C.T.E.
to violence and suicide.
The science, he said, is far from settled.
While researchers have found links between C.T.E.
and symptoms like rage, depression and irritability, they cannot definitively say that the disease predicts the behavior.
Also complicating the research is that C.T.E.
can only be diagnosed posthumously, so scientists rely on a limited number of brains donated for research.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Nobody can say football and the head hits created Aaron Hernandez and his behavior, said Brad Sohn, a lawyer who has sued the N.F.L.
on behalf of former players.
But the pathology should scare anyone with a rational bone in his body.
He had a raisin-like brain of a 70-year-old even though he was 27.
Still, despite the legal hurdles facing Hernandezs family, they might still receive money from the N.F.L.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Lockhart said the league had a range of benefits available to the families of deceased players, including survivors benefits and annuities.
He also pointed to the class-action settlement that the league reached with retired players in which players who died and were found to have C.T.E.
are eligible for up to $4 million.
That benefit, though, is available only to players who had retired and died before the settlement was approved in federal court in 2015.
So in effect, the settlement would be a Trojan horse.
If the Hernandez family joins the settlement, arguing that he was no longer playing as of 2013 when he was imprisoned, they give up their right to sue the league, Sohn said, without any guarantee of getting money from the settlement.
Balsam, the former N.F.L.
lawyer, suggested that Baez, through the suit, is hoping for the remainder of Hernandezs $40 million contract extension he signed in 2012.
After Hernandez was arrested and charged with murder in June 2013, the Patriots released him and refused to pay him a $3 million bonus he was owed.
The Patriots withheld the money because Hernandezs conduct was detrimental to the team.
But Hernandez, through a quirk in Massachusetts law, has had his murder conviction overturned because he died before his appeal of the case could be heard.
So, in theory, Baez could argue that because Hernandez technically is no longer guilty of murder, the Patriots should repay his family the money he did not receive.
That argument could play out in court over weeks and months, causing the team and the league significant embarrassment.
But the league does not seem to mind sticking it out, even in high-profile cases.
It has declined to settle a wrongful-death suit by another former Patriot, the Hall of Fame linebacker Junior Seau, who also killed himself and was found to have C.T.E.
The N.F.L.
is making clear on every level that they want to take the General Patton approach as long as possible and make it as expensive and challenging for anyone who tries to fight them in court, Sohn said.
So its a question of, whos willing to fight these cases and stand up to the bullies.
Photo

Expectations were rock bottom for a Thursday night game between the Rams and the 49ers.
But the game turned out to be an entertaining shootout, and maybe a breakout performance by Jared Goff.
Goff was the No.
1 overall pick in last years draft by the Rams.
He started seven games, losing them all, and averaged only 156 yards a game, 39th among quarterbacks.
In contrast, the No.
2 pick in the draft, Carson Wentz, was a respectable 7-9 and averaged 23 for the Eagles.
Wentz is still playing well, but now so is Goff.
He and the Rams are off to a 2-1 start, he is averaging 272 yards a game, and his adjusted-yards-per-attempt figure is a dazzling 10.77, trailing only Alex Smith among quarterbacks with two or more starts.
On Thursday he outdueled, er, Brian Hoyer, throwing for 292 yards and three touchdowns without an interception in a 41-39 win.
His passing line was an eye-opening 22-for-28.
He was helped by some fine catches by Robert Woods and Sammy Watkins, who each had 100-yard games.
Goff is 20-for-27 without an interception on third downs, according to Sportradar.
He has also shown the ability to go deep, completing eight passes in which the ball traveled 20 yards or further.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Before we hand the Rams the Lombardi Trophy, lets remember that their wins have come against the woeful Niners and the Colts without Andrew Luck; neither of those teams has a win of their own.
Their loss was against the Redskins, who do not appear exceptional.
Next weeks game at Dallas will be a sterner test.
And the Rams nearly blew a 14-point lead on Thursday night, winning only after a failed 2-point conversion by the 49ers that would have tied the score.
The Rams, now coached by Sean McVay after five years of Jeff Fisher, were 100-1 odds to win the Super Bowl at the start of the season.
But they are suddenly looking like a real offensive team, and they lead the N.F.C.
With Goff proving himself more adept this year, at least against the teams hes faced so far, there is hope in Los Angeles.
The league had already faced public relations problems after other high-profile players were found to have C.T.E., including Junior Seau, Ken Stabler and Frank Gifford.
Mr. Seau  along with Dave Duerson, Andre Waters and Ray Easterling, among others  killed himself.
For years, Mr. Hernandez was held up as a particularly egregious example of N.F.L.
players running amok off the field.
Just 10 months after he signed a $40 million contract with the Patriots in 2013, with the promise of becoming a superstar, the body of a friend who had been shot multiple times was discovered.
Mr. Hernandez was convicted of the friends murder, and later accused in two other killings from 2012.
Just days after an acquittal in that case, he hanged himself with a bedsheet in his prison cell.
The researchers did not make a direct link between Mr. Hernandezs violence and his disease.
But C.T.E.
is often marked by problems with controlling aggression and impulses, and some degree of dementia, as well as mood swings, lapses in judgment and a disorganized manner.
Mr. Hernandezs estate filed a federal lawsuit on Thursday against the N.F.L.
and the Patriots seeking damages to compensate his 4-year-old daughter for the loss of her father.
The suit alleges that the league and the team knew that repeated head hits could lead to brain disease, yet did not do enough to protect Mr. Hernandez from those hits.
The lawyer, Jose Baez, said the family was also contemplating suing the N.C.A.A.
and the University of Florida, where Mr. Hernandez played before playing for the Patriots.
The N.F.L.
did not comment on the medical finding, and it declined to comment on the suit.
The Patriots declined to comment.
Soon after his arrest in 2013, the team distanced itself from him, buying back more than 1,200 Hernandez jerseys from fans.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The trauma to Mr. Hernandezs brain raises fresh questions about the dangers of playing tackle football.
This week, other researchers at Boston University published research that found that adults who began playing tackle football before they were 12 years old developed more cognitive and behavioral problems later in life than those players who started tackle football after they reached that age.
Photo

Mr. Hernandez played football as a teenager, and in 2013 was given the Inspiration to Youth Award by Pop Warner, the best-known youth football organization in the country.
The fact that Mr. Hernandez also led a troubled life off the field will complicate the N.F.L.s efforts to calm jitters about the sport because it will probably make some people wonder whether football had a role in his violence away from the game.
Mr. Baez said that in hindsight, Mr. Hernandezs family had witnessed him act in ways that were consistent with a person found to have C.T.E., but you dont know.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The slides of Mr. Hernandezs brain samples were unambiguous and graphic.
Dr. Ann McKee, chief of neuropathology at the VA Boston Healthcare System and director of the CTE Center at Boston University, examined his brain and said in a statement that Mr. Hernandez had early brain atrophy and large perforations in the septum pellucidum, a central membrane of the brain.
The slides also showed what she called classic features of C.T.E.
in the brain, including deposits of tau protein in the front lobes of the brain in nerve cells around small blood vessels.
The discovery of C.T.E.
adds another turn in Mr. Hernandezs meteoric rise and fall.
After a standout career at Florida, he was signed by the Patriots in 2010.
Just years before, he had been working menial jobs in Bristol, Conn., his hardscrabble hometown, where he drove a $300 used car he bought with money borrowed from friends.
At Florida, he helped the Gators win the national title in the 2008 season.
But he fell to the fourth round of the N.F.L.
draft because of off-field issues including involvement in a bar fight.
Less than a year after he signed the contract with the Patriots that might have provided a stable future, his friend was found murdered.
His conviction in the case became a stark example of N.F.L.
players who exhibit violence off the field.
Even his demise was filled with turmoil.
After Mr. Hernandez died, Mr. Baez called a news conference in front of the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner and accused the state of illegally withholding Mr. Hernandezs brain.
Mr. Hernandezs body had been discovered the day before, tied with a bedsheet to the window of his prison cell in Shirley, Mass.
His death was later ruled a suicide.
Instead, Lynch has seemed rejuvenated by the year off, and has paid immediate dividends for the Raiders, adding a hard-nosed edge to the offense that is not only showing up in attitude, but also in production.
At 31, he is hardly being asked to do everything himself  he has 30 of the teams 56 carries  but he has contributed to strong gains for Oakland in the percentage of rushing yards they pick up after contact, which makes teams work hard to stop him.
He may not have had a carry for more than 14 yards yet, but he has been knocked for a loss only twice, and the tough yards he has been able to fight for have opened things up for Derek Carr and the passing game.
Carr has taken advantage with a passer rating of 126.5 thus far, which is nearly 30 points better than his career high for a season.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This week the Raiders will be on the road against a Redskins (1-1) team that has done fairly well against the run, but has shown some vulnerability in the passing game.
If Lynch can hammer away at the Redskins front-seven, and let Carr exploit matchup advantages against the Washington secondary, the Raiders could have the teams first 3-0 start since 2002.
Pick: Raiders

Falcons at Lions, 1 p.m. on Fox

Line: Falcons by 3

Even though the Falcons are the defending N.F.C.
champions, this was not seen by many as a marquee matchup when the schedules came out.
But considering how well Atlanta (2-0) played last week against Green Bay, and how good Detroit (2-0) has looked in both games so far, this could be the most evenly matched game this week in terms of talent.
It is the only meeting of the week between unbeaten teams.
Matt Ryan of the Falcons and Matthew Stafford of the Lions will get the bulk of the publicity, but this game is likely to come down to which defense can limit the opposing offense, which makes the absence of Vic Beasley, Atlantas top pass-rusher, perhaps the most important injury note of the week.
Pick: Lions

Texans at Patriots, 1 p.m. on CBS

Line: Patriots by 13.5

Coach Bill Belichick has always seemed to relish picking on young quarterbacks, and with Houston (1-1) sending out Deshaun Watson for a start against the Patriots (1-1) in Foxborough, here are some numbers worth paying attention to: 5-15 (the record of rookie quarterbacks against Belichick-led Patriots teams); 0-8 (the record of those quarterbacks when playing in Foxborough); 0-5 (the record of the Texans at Foxborough regardless of who is playing quarterback).
New Englands wide receiver depth chart has only one fully healthy player, and Rob Gronkowski, who looked superhero-like last week, had yet to practice as of Wednesday, so a blowout score might be hard to manage.
Expecting Watson to pull off a victory is likely to be too much to ask, but the point spread is outlandish.
Pick: Texans

Second-Tier Games

Photo

Seahawks at Titans, 4:05 p.m. on Fox

Line: Titans by 2.5

The Seahawks (1-1) have been horrid offensively, and a lot of the blame has been placed on the teams offensive line.
Pro Football Focus backs that blame up by rating three of the teams five starters as poor, with Rees Odhiambo, the teams starting left tackle, picking up the rear with a player rating of 25.9 that ranks 72nd among tackles.
The interesting thing, though, is that according to Sportradar, Russell Wilson has had an average of 2.57 seconds in the pocket before he releases the ball or the pocket collapses, which is better than last seasons mark of 2.29 seconds, and is the fifth most time of any quarterback.
He has been hit an average of 6.5 times a game, which is tied for the 12th most, and has been sacked six times, which is tied for 9th.
Wilson undoubtedly could use better protection, but placing all of the blame on the guys up front may be misguided.
In the meantime, Seattles defense is mostly making up for the offensive inadequacy, and should be able to handle Tennessee (1-1), especially if DeMarco Murray is unable to play.
Pick: Seahawks

Giants at Eagles, 1 p.m. on Fox

Line: Eagles by 6

Coach Ben McAdoo of the Giants (0-2) did not hold back during a conference call this week.
Yeah, we cant keep doing the same thing over and over again, McAdoo said.
Thats insanity.
Its not working.
So we are going to look to make some changes this week, like we did last week.
Maybe it will be a little more drastic this week, to use your word.
It is hardly sunshine and puppy dogs in Philadelphia, as the Eagles (1-1) are struggling to find any sort of offensive balance, and have some key injuries on defense, but playing at home against a team in disarray can do a lot to make a team look like it has everything together.
Pick: Eagles

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Buccaneers at Vikings, 1 p.m. on Fox

Line: N/A

No one is sure what to make of this game since the status of Minnesotas starting quarterback, Sam Bradford, has yet to be determined.
The Vikings (1-1) looked terrific in Week 1, with Bradford earning N.F.C.
offensive player of the week honors for his performance against New Orleans, but a knee injury kept him out of Week 2 and the result was a 26-9 loss to Pittsburgh.
If Bradford, who practiced in a limited capacity on Wednesday, is able to play, Minnesota would seemingly be at an advantage, but without him the Vikings will struggle to score, even though his backup, Case Keenum, has a 2-0 record against Tampa Bay (1-0) over the last two seasons.
Pick: Vikings

Broncos at Bills, 1 p.m. on CBS

Line: Broncos by 3

Denver (2-0) barely escaped with a victory in Week 1, but then absolutely dominated one of the N.F.L.s best teams in Week 2, so figuring out exactly where they fit leaguewide can be difficult.
Trevor Siemian may not be able to reel off four passing touchdowns every week, but if the teams run defense can play as well as it did while humiliating Ezekiel Elliott, then the Broncos will be no fun for opponents.
Buffalo (1-1) will do its best to get something going with LeSean McCoy, but the Bills will eventually need to throw the ball, and its hard to believe that Tyrod Taylor can find openings with Aqib Talib and Chris Harris Jr. roaming the field.
Pick: Broncos

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Steelers at Bears, 1 p.m. on CBS

Line: Steelers by 7.5

Pittsburgh (2-0) has not exactly been setting the world on fire offensively, but it has done enough to win, and provided the team does not fall apart against the lowly Bears, they should have their first 3-0 start to the season since 2010.
It would be easy to be disappointed in the Steelers efforts considering the presence of several of the leagues biggest stars.
But Chicago (0-2) could put on a clinic in disappointment: Mike Glennon has proved his critics correct by not looking even close to being worth his huge salary, and Jordan Howard thus far is struggling to repeat his success from a year ago.
Pick: Steelers

Bengals at Packers, 4:25 p.m. on CBS

Line: Packers by 9

Even if the Packers (1-1) are still figuring things out defensively, a win at home over the struggling Bengals (0-2) seems like it would be easy enough.
The complicating factor is health.
Green Bay had its roster fall apart last week, with seven starters unable to play by the end of the loss to Atlanta.
If Mike Daniels, the teams versatile defensive lineman, is unable to go because of a hip injury, then this game is far more evenly matched.
It could come down to whether a patchwork offensive line can give Aaron Rodgers some time to work.
Pick: Packers

Chiefs at Chargers, 4:25 p.m. on CBS

Line: Chiefs by 3

The Chargers (0-2) have kept things close over the first two weeks of the season, but ended both games with a failed field goal attempt by Younghoe Koo and a loss.
If this game comes down to a last-second field goal attempt, it would be a shock, as the Chiefs (2-0), even when playing on the road, appear to have strong advantages on both sides of the ball.
Pick: Chiefs

Saints at Panthers, 1 p.m. on Fox

Line: Panthers by 6

New Orleans (0-2) has been absolutely cursed in September over the last few seasons, with a record of 1-11 in the month since 2014.
But this year they have certainly earned the losses, giving up 470 yards to Minnesota in Week 1 and 555 to New England in Week 2.
They might not be run quite as ragged this week by a Carolina (2-0) offense has been a bit rusty to start the season (and wont be helped by the absence of Greg Olsen).
But the Panthers do not need to run up the score given how well their defense has been playing.
Pick: Panthers

Bottom-Tier Games

Dolphins at Jets, 1 p.m. on CBS

Line: Dolphins by 6

The Jay Cutler experiment in Miami got off to a good start in a game in which he did not commit a turnover, got the entire offense involved, and helped lead the Dolphins (1-0) on a game-winning drive.
The potential for turnovers (plural) is always there, and having Lawrence Timmons suspended indefinitely for going missing from the team weakens the defense, but the Dolphins have advantages on both sides of the ball against the Jets (0-2).
Pick: Dolphins

Ravens at Jaguars, 9:30 a.m. on CBS

Line: Ravens by 4

The N.F.L.
has been playing games in London for 10 years now, and no team has played there more than the Jaguars.
Jacksonville (1-1) is still working its way through an agreement that has the team playing one home game a year there until at least 2020, and while their 2-2 record in London since 2013 may not seem impressive, it is certainly better than their 14-48 record outside of the London in the same time span.
Baltimore (2-0) has had a fairly smooth start to the season, and has the look of a playoff team.
The adjustment to international travel in the teams first visit abroad is the only thing putting this games result in doubt.
Pick: Ravens

Rams at 49ers, 8:25 p.m. (Thursday) on NFL Network

Line: Rams by 2.5

The N.F.C.
West is probably the leagues worst division in terms of overall talent, but at least when teams from the division are playing each other things are more evenly matched.
Both Los Angeles (1-1) and San Francisco (0-2) have shown year-to-year improvement, but with Eric Reid and Reuben Foster out, it would be too much to ask for the 49ers defense to do enough heavy lifting to win.
Pick: Rams

Browns at Colts, 1 p.m. on CBS

Line: Browns by 1

Dear Andrew Luck,

We are underdogs, at home, against a team known mostly for losing in embarrassing fashion.
We might be able to pull this one off, but it would be helpful if you could come back soon.
Sincerely, Colts fans

Pick: Colts

Mondays Matchup

Cowboys at Cardinals, 8:30 on ESPN

Line: Cowboys by 3

Dallas (1-1) is probably trying to pretend last week never happened.
Dak Prescott committed turnovers, Ezekiel Elliott could not find any room to run, and the Cowboys were simply humiliated by the Broncos.
The problems were rampant on both sides of the ball, but a chance to regroup against Arizona (1-1), a team that could barely beat the lowly Colts, could help shake the loss off and get Dallas back to a position of strength.
Pick: Cowboys
Its still too early to know if Hunt is the next Jamaal Charles, circa 2012, but we know enough to feel good about starting him in Week 3 of 2017.
Quarterback

Matt Ryan (ATL at Lions)  While he has only two touchdown passes through two games, he has been in complete control of the Falcons offense and hasnt really needed to do a whole lot in leading his team to two victories.
But in this matchup, he may need to air it out to keep up with Matthew Stafford and the Lions in what the Vegas oddsmakers are predicting to be the second highest scoring game of Week 3.
Im also not sold on the Lions secondary having improved vastly over the unit that allowed the fifth most fantasy points per game to quarterbacks in 2016.
Matthew Stafford (DET vs.
Falcons)  The other side of this potential high-scoring affair is Detroit and Stafford, who wasnt great against the Giants tough secondary, but was against the Cardinals in Week 1.
The Falcons, who gave up the second most F.P.P.G.
to the position in 2016 and helped Aaron Rodgers get back on track in Week 2, should do their part in making this game a true shootout.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Also consider: Cam Newton (CAR vs. Saints); Jay Cutler (MIA at Jets).
Running Back

Isaiah Crowell (CLE at Colts)  It has been a rough start for Crowell, who has 70 yards on 27 carries through the first two games of the season.
But it hasnt really been his fault, as the Browns have fallen behind early in both games, forcing them to shift away from the run.
Chances are that the Colts, who have a combined 21 points over the first two weeks, will be seeing a lot more of Crowell than the Steelers and the Ravens did.
Indianapoliss run defense is nothing to write home about, either, having allowed the sixth most F.P.P.G.
(20.6) to the position in 2016.
It hasnt improved that much in 2017, helping the Rams Todd Gurley to 15.6 fantasy points in Week 1.
C. J. Anderson (DEN at Bills)  No running back had a better fantasy performance than Anderson in Week 1 (118 rushing yards and two total touchdowns), and he did it in what was thought to be one of the tougher matchups for a fantasy back in Dallas.
Next up are the Bills, who yielded the third most F.P.P.G.
to running backs (21.7) last season.
While they have done better this season, they have not faced the type of tough challenge that the Broncos run game poses.
Also consider: Marshawn Lynch (OAK at Redskins).
Wide Receiver

Kelvin Benjamin (CAR vs. Saints)  After a disappointing Week 1, Benjamin last week looked more like the top receiver he showed he could be during the preseason, hauling in six of his eight targets for 77 yards.
Still, he has yet to return much fantasy value to those who drafted him this summer.
That should change against the Saints, who have been lit up by opposing pass offenses this season, including big fantasy performances by the Vikings Adam Thielen and Stefon Diggs in Week 1.
Just keep an eye on Benjamins injury status, as he has been slowed by knee soreness.
Martavis Bryant (PIT at Bears)  Antonio Brown is the obvious receiver to get excited about against the Bears porous secondary, but do not forget about Bryant, who had 91 yards and a touchdown last week against the Vikings.
This performance came after Bryant looked out of sorts in Week 1, his first regular-season N.F.L.
game in over a year.
Expect his chemistry with Ben Roethlisberger to continue growing as the season progresses, and expect him to get some help from a Bears secondary that allowed the sixth most fantasy points to wide receivers in 2016 (25.2 F.P.P.G.).
Also consider: Doug Baldwin (SEA at Titans).
Tight End

Jared Cook (OAK at Redskins)  He saw 11 of quarterback Derek Carrs 60 targets last week, though he converted only four of them into receptions for 25 yards.
Still, it shows that he is a major player in this passing offense, and a very solid streaming tight end option this week against the Redskins, who have allowed the most yards to opposing tight ends so far in 2017.
Defense/Special Teams

Ravens (vs. JAC at London); Patriots (vs. HOU).
Kicker

Giorgio Tavecchio (OAK at Redskins); Graham Gano (CAR vs. Saints).
I think the real Bernie Casey is coming through, he told Life.
There are all sorts of signs.
Just the other day, I was walking through a gallery and a man walked up and said, Are you Bernard Casey, the artist?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Casey balanced painting abstract oils and fantasy landscapes with acting once he stopped playing football.
He retired after the 1968 season, three years after Jim Brown, the N.F.L.s biggest star, abrupty ended his career with the Cleveland Browns and began to act.
One of Mr. Caseys first roles was in tick  tick  tick , a 1970 thriller with Mr. Brown.
He went on to play J. C. Caroline, a Chicago Bears teammate of the dying Brian Piccolo, in the television movie Brians Song (1971); a C.I.A.
agent working with Sean Connery in the James Bond film Never Say Never Again (1983); and an aging action hero in Im Gonna Git You Sucka (1989), a parody of the blaxploitation genre that reunited him with Mr. Brown.
Mr. Casey also appeared in three of the Revenge of the Nerds movies, a series of comedies about collegiate misfits fighting a jock fraternity.
He played U. N. Jefferson, president of the Lambda Lambda Lambda fraternity.
Photo

In 1973, he portrayed the paralyzed former National Basketball Association player Maurice Stokes in the film Maurie.
Writing in The New York Times, the columnist Dave Anderson praised Mr. Casey for capturing the agonizing effort required by Mr. Stokes to lift a spoon and recalled a conversation he had with Mr. Casey late in his football career.
Just because Im a football player, he told Mr. Anderson, doesnt mean I cant be something else at the same time.
Most of us live on a small portion of our capacity.
I dont want to let the limitation of others limit me.
Bernard Terry Casey was born on June 8, 1939, in Wyco, W. Va. His father, Frank, was a coal miner.
His mother was the former Flossie Coleman.
In addition to playing on the Bowling Green football team, which was voted the small college champion in 1959, Mr. Casey competed in the high hurdles and finished sixth at the 1960 Olympic trials, short of making the team.
He earned a bachelors degree and a masters of fine arts from Bowling Green.
He was drafted by the 49ers, the New York Titans (who became the Jets) of the American Football League and the Montreal Alouettes of the Canadian Football League.
He chose the 49ers because, he said, San Francisco would advance his artistic dreams.
He was traded in 1967 to the Atlanta Falcons, which quickly sent him to the Rams.
Photo

Collectors of his paintings have included Sidney Poitier, Burt Reynolds and Maya Angelou, according to the Thelma Harris Art Gallery in Oakland, which had a major show of Mr. Caseys paintings in 2003.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Casey also published a few books of poetry, including Look at the People (1969) and Where Is the Revolution  and Other Poems (1973).
He is survived by his sister, Frankie Murray.
His marriage to Paula Campbell ended in divorce.
They had no children.
In 1997, Mr. Casey directed, wrote and produced the movie The Dinner, which featured three African-American men talking about slavery, white superiority, black crime and other racial subjects around a dinner table.
It was a departure from the action films and comedies he was known for.
But it was close to his heart and based on conversations with his friends.
None of the characters had names; they were Good Brother (Mr. Casey), Young Brother (Wren Brown) and Brother Man (Doug Johnson).
Most people dont know us, as African-Americans, Mr. Casey said at the time, even those of us who are greatly celebrated.
We are so expendable, we have no history in the context of the nation.
Photo

Travis Taijeron singled home the winning run with one out in the bottom of the ninth inning and the Mets rallied late to beat the Atlanta Braves, 4-3, at Citi Field.
The Mets were stymied by the 42-year-old knuckleballer R. A. Dickey much of the night and trailed, 3-0, in the seventh before he surrendered a two-run homer to Kevin Plawecki.
Asdrubal Cabrera tied the score with a sacrifice fly in the eighth.
Minter (0-1) allowed a leadoff single in the ninth to Plawecki, who was replaced by pinch-runner Juan Lagares.
Dominic Smith walked but Minter struck out Amed Rosario, who failed to bunt the runners over.
Taijeron, who struck out his previous two times up, hit a line drive over the head of left fielder Jace Peterson to win the game.
Jeurys Familia (2-2) pitched a scoreless ninth inning to gain the victory.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Dickey, who won the National Leagues Cy Young Award with the Mets in 2012, dominated his former team for six innings and retired 13 straight before allowing a single to Brandon Nimmo in the seventh.
Plawecki followed with his homer to left field.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Nori Aoki walked with one out in the eighth, and a throwing error by third baseman Johan Camargo left runners at second and third.
Cabreras sacrifice fly off reliever Sam Freeman was caught by a diving Ender Inciarte, preventing the go-ahead run from scoring.
Inciarte extended his career-high total to 200 hits when he doubled in the first inning and scored on Nick Markakiss double.
The Braves added two more runs off starter Rafael Montero in the second on an R.B.I.
double by Peterson and a two-out single by Ozzie Albies.
Photo

Seth Lugo pitched two-hit ball over six innings, and Travis dArnaud hit a record-setting homer for the Mets in a 3-2 victory over the visiting Atlanta Braves on Monday night, splitting a doubleheader.
DArnauds solo shot in the eighth inning helped the Mets rebound from a 9-2 loss in the opener.
It was the 219th homer for the Mets, a franchise season record.
The sparse crowd at Citi Field jeered when the home run apple did not rise after dArnauds homer, then cheered when it finally appeared three batters later.
Lugo (7-5) turned in the best performance of his career, allowing just two singles.
Lugo struck out seven, did not issue a walk and retired the final 12 batters he faced as the Mets won for just the third time in 15 games.
Brandon Nimmo matched a career high with three hits in the nightcap, including a single off starter Max Fried (1-1) that led off the third.
Juan Lagares, who had four hits in the two games, hit the next pitch back to the mound, and Frieds throw went well over the head of first baseman Rio Ruiz for a two-base error.
Asdrubal Cabrera grounded to second to score the first run, and dArnaud followed with a double to deep center field to score Lagares.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Atlanta mounted rallies in each of the last two innings, finally breaking through against Jeurys Familia in the ninth.
Kurt Suzuki singled to begin the rally, and Freddie Freeman reached on a fielding error by Familia.
Johan Camargo grounded out to advance the runners, and Jace Peterson then singled to left to end the shutout bid.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Pinch-hitter Matt Kemp grounded to first to score Freeman, but Familia rebounded to retire pinch-hitter Tyler Flowers on a grounder to third for his fifth save and his second since his return after an operation to remove a blood clot in his right arm.
Judge leads the league in runs scored while hitting .283 with 105 R.B.I., but here is the biggest reason he should win: Nobody plays the modern game better.
Besides his two homers in Mondays 11-3 rout, Judge added his 120th walk and his 203rd strikeout.
His homers, walks and strikeouts lead the A.L.
In his first full major league season, Judge has become the manifestation of the game in 2017.
Major League Baseball has set a single-season record for total home runs, as strikeout and walk rates continue to rise.
Plate discipline, launch angle, exit velocity.
Patience, power, production.
That is baseball today.
More well-rounded players who rarely strike out  like Houstons Jose Altuve, Bostons Mookie Betts and Clevelands Jose Ramirez  have also led their teams to postseason berths.
All play an exhilarating style of baseball.
But it is hard to believe anyone has been more of a force than Judge.
When we left spring training, Yankees Manager Joe Girardi said, I said, If he gets the barrel of the bat to the ball, hes going to do a lot of damage  and if he does it on a consistent basis, hes going to have a huge year for us.
And thats what hes done.
You can talk about the home runs, the runs, the R.B.I.s, the walks, the defense, the base-running  over and over, hes a complete player.
There has never been a player who strikes out so much yet makes up for it so emphatically.
Only five other players have struck out 200 times in a season: Mark Reynolds (three times), Chris Carter and Chris Davis (twice each), Adam Dunn and Drew Stubbs.
In one of those seasons, Davis placed 14th in the M.V.P.
That is the highest finish ever by a player with at least 200 strikeouts.
Naturally, Judge said he had not considered the possibility of being the most valuable player, an award won by just two other rookies: Fred Lynn in 1975 and Ichiro Suzuki in 2001.
Judge is much more comfortable talking about team accomplishments.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Just like the record, I dont try to think about that, Judge said of the M.V.P.
race, especially with what this teams got going on, with this playoff push and trying to win a division.
Thats more important to me right now.
Id rather be in good position in the playoffs and holding up a World Series trophy than an A.L.
M.V.P.
trophy, at this point.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Judge reached the All-Star Game break hitting .329, but he wobbled when the season resumed.
He entered September with a .179 average since the break, precisely his average in a cameo with the Yankees last summer.
That mark was so embarrassing, Judge has acknowledged, that it fueled his workouts last winter.
Repeating that performance in the second half of this season has not worried him, Judge insists, because he had already shown what he could achieve.
Soon enough, teammates told him, he would be that superstar again.
Judge kept wearing down pitchers, even without much to show for it.
When youre going through slumps and youre struggling, sometimes players become over-anxious, Girardi said.
And he was able to maintain a sense of what he needed to do, that he needed to remain patient and look for his pitch.
From July 14 through Aug. 31, Judge hit only seven homers to go with that .179 average.
But his on-base percentage was respectable, at .346.
He may have been more bothered by a shoulder ailment than he let on, and he deflected a question about it on Monday.
His September performance  a .307 average, a .444 on-base percentage and 13 homers, the most he has hit in any month  is evidence of the revival teammates expected.
When youre making outs and youre striking out, I think its just that much harder, and to see the look on his face and how he prepared himself, still, every day, he didnt even flinch about it, third baseman Todd Frazier said.
Come in every day, got a walk, all right, its coming.
Then get a walk, maybe a blooper  and eventually he came back.
When Judge broke McGwires record Monday, with a blast to deep left center off Trevor Cahill in the seventh inning, the fans gave him his first curtain call.
Judge said he had never gotten one before  not in high school, not at Fresno State, not in the minors.
He seemed a little sheepish about it  he didnt want to interrupt the game  but the recognition was overdue.
Only four other Yankees have hit 50 home runs in a season: Babe Ruth (four times), Mickey Mantle (twice), Roger Maris and Alex Rodriguez.
Looking back at the history of the Yankees and all the greats that have put on the pinstripes, its extraordinary, Judge said.
Just getting a chance to play one game with the Yankees is quite an honor.
To have your name with those greats is something, as a kid, I never dreamed of.
This is reality now, for Judge and his game.
Even if the Yankees had won on Sunday, their chances of catching Boston would have remained slim.
But the loss raised the question of how quickly the team would be able to shake off the effects of Saturdays clincher and return to crisp baseball.
Aaron Judge, for one, did not have trouble with that.
He hit two home runs Sunday that gave him 48 for the season, one shy of the major league rookie record set by Mark McGwire in 1987 with the Oakland Athletics.
Photo

Judges first homer of the day came off Toronto starter Marcus Stroman in the sixth inning with the bases empty, and landed in the second deck beyond left field.
The second, a line drive off Ryan Tepera in the seventh, was a two-run shot to left-center.
I was swinging at the right pitches, Judge said, and thats the biggest thing.
Judge said that he was not thinking about breaking McGwires record, but that if he does it, he hopes it comes during a Yankees win.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Were trying to do something special here, he said.
For Toronto, the blowout win provided a fitting stage for the home fans to say goodbye to Bautista, the slugging right fielder who is not expected to be re-signed by the team after 10 productive seasons here that included six All-Star Game appearances.
He received a standing ovation during each at-bat, and in the top of the ninth Manager John Gibbons replaced Bautista in right field, giving the crowd a moment for a final on-field salute.
Bautista hugged teammates as he left the field and also when he reached the dugout.
Then he re-emerged to wave to the fans one last time.
Bautista has 287 home runs for the Blue Jays and 218 doubles.
He also hit six home runs and drove in 16 runs during 20 playoff games over the last two years.
One of those home runs helped Toronto win the American League wild-card game here last season.
A year later, the Yankees were the ones holding a celebration at Rogers Centre, and it was unusually long and wild.
So much champagne and beer flowed in the visitors clubhouse on Saturday that there were standing puddles on the carpet.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In light of that, Girardi said he had been wary of how his team would respond the next day.
You think about it, he said after Sundays loss.
You worry about it a little bit as you go through the emotions of last night and clinching a spot.
Starter Jaime Garcia had a particularly rough day, surrendering five runs and walking three batters in only two and one-third innings.
But he refused to use Saturdays celebration as a way to minimize his culpability.
On my part, there is no excuse, Garcia said.
I totally take the blame for this game.
I take a lot of pride when I take the mound to keep us in the ballgame, and I wasnt able to do that today.
Photo

OAKLAND, Calif.  Bruce Maxwell, a rookie catcher for the Oakland Athletics, on Saturday became the first Major League Baseball player to kneel during the national anthem.
Maxwell, 26, dropped to a knee just outside Oaklands dugout before a game against the Texas Rangers, adopting a protest started by the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick in response to police treatment of black Americans.
Maxwells teammates stood in a line next to him, and Mark Canha put his right hand on Maxwells shoulder.
The Athletics released a statement on Twitter shortly after the anthem, saying they respect and support all of our players constitutional rights and freedom of expression and pride ourselves on being inclusive.
Major League Baseball also issued a statement, saying it has a longstanding tradition of honoring our nation prior to the start of our games but that we also respect that each of our players is an individual with his own background, perspectives and opinions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Maxwells gesture came after President Trump denounced anthem protests by N.F.L.
players and rescinded a White House invitation to the N.B.A.s Stephen Curry in a two-day rant that targeted top professional athletes.
Photo

For the first time since April 30, the Mets ace, Noah Syndergaard, took the mound in a major league game on Saturday.
As planned, he pitched just the first inning before giving way to Matt Harvey in a 4-3 loss to the Washington Nationals in 10 innings.
Syndergaard, who has been recovering from a partially torn right latissimus muscle, allowed a hit but threw only five pitches in the scoreless inning.
It was great to see him out there, Manager Terry Collins said.
With a week left in the season, Syndergaard was running out of time to rebuild enough arm strength to start a game for the Mets.
He previously made two minor league rehabilitation starts and threw one simulated game.
His fastball registered 99 miles per hour on the radar gun, normal for Syndergaard, a hard-throwing right-hander.
He gave up a single to Jayson Werth but erased Werth from the bases by getting Daniel Murphy to hit into a double play.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

One inning is all I needed to get my feet wet and go into the off-season healthy, said Syndergaard, who is expected to make one more start this season.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
He added, I felt like I needed it, because Ive put in so much work over the past five months.
Joe Girardi, the Yankees manager, said that the team would pursue the division title, and that the secondary goal would be retaining home-field advantage for the wild-card game.
Photo

I think its important that we keep our foot on the gas and see where we lie, Girardi said.
You dont want guys to lose that edge that theyve had for so long.
The Yankees were committed this season to a balancing act of rebuilding the team while also trying to win now, and they made it work.
Last year they traded away veteran stars like Andrew Miller and Aroldis Chapman to stock the minor league system with prized prospects, hoping to build toward a prosperous future with a core of talented young players already in place, including Greg Bird, Aaron Judge, Gary Sanchez and Luis Severino.
But General Manager Brian Cashman also made moves to fortify the team for this years push.
That included bringing back Chapman as a free agent, signing Matt Holliday and later trading for players like Sonny Gray, Todd Frazier, Tommy Kahnle and David Robertson without surrendering the clubs best young players.
Saturdays victory represented the fruit of those decisions.
Gray allowed one run and four hits in six innings, and Bird hit a three-run home run, his third homer in the last seven games.
Chad Green, Robertson and Chapman combined for three hitless innings in relief, and Frazier cemented the win with a solo home run in the eighth.
All we needed was an invitation, Frazier said, referring to the postseason party.
We got that invitation today.
Girardi credited the postseason berth to virtually everyone in the organization, from the owners and Cashman down to the trainers.
When spring training began in February, the Yankees were not considered a top contender.
Photo

Going into spring training, I wasnt sure, Girardi said.
But coming out of spring training, I felt really good about our team.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Pitcher C. C. Sabathia, another long-serving Yankee, was also optimistic about the teams chances, based on the raw talent he saw from the beginning and on the moves Cashman made to reinforce the roster.
Obviously, the front office knew what they were doing, Sabathia said.
The last time the Yankees were in the postseason was 2015, but Sabathia did not attend the wild-card loss to the Houston Astros because he had admitted himself to a rehabilitation center to deal with alcoholism.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
On Saturday he stood mostly to the side of the clubhouse and watched the revelry with a huge smile on his face.
It feels good, he said, just to be able to get back in the playoffs, obviously, and be able to help the team.
It feels good.
The party raged on as players and coaches soaked in the moment.
Were getting after it a little bit right now, Frazier said.
Well deserved.
Well be back to business again tomorrow.
Weve still got a division to try and win, too.
This is a good team, and we all know what to do.
INSIDE PITCH

Luis Severino was struck in the upper back with a baseball during batting practice, but he said he was O.K.
An intruder got past stadium security on Friday and into the Yankees clubhouse, but he was caught and arrested after trying to steal a helmet and some baseballs.
With one out in the third inning, Frazier was on second base after a double.
Jacoby Ellsbury lined a ball into right field, and Bautista made one of three fine plays in the game  a leaping grab of the ball over his head.
As Frazier scrambled back to the bag, Bautista threw the ball back in to Goins, the second baseman.
Photo

Goins pretended to casually throw back to Estrada, but actually placed the ball in his glove as Frazier stood on the base, looking toward the outfield.
When Frazier stepped of the base by just inches, Goins tagged him for the final out.
Frazier blamed his lack of concentration for the play.
I thought the ball was thrown in, and it was one of those things, he said.
Nothing you can do about it afterward.
Castro also took the blame for his mistake  failing to catch Fraziers throw in the first inning with a runner coming into second base.
Castro said he had rushed to turn the double play, and missed the ball.
The runner, Teoscar Hernandez, ended up at third and scored on a groundout by Bautista.
Perhaps both of those mistakes could have been overcome if Tanaka had pitched better.
But he gave up a bases-empty homer to Hernandez in the third and a two-run shot by the former Yankee Russell Martin in the fourth, and the Blue Jays led, 4-1.
Then in the sixth, Tanaka walked Bautista as the leadoff batter, just as he had done before Martins homer in the fourth.
Kevin Pillar singled, but Tanaka struck out Martin and Miguel Montero, hinting that he still had the stuff to get safely out of the inning.
Photo

But he walked pinch-hitter Kendrys Morales (he said he was not pitching around him to face Goins) to load the bases.
Goins was 0 for 20 against Tanaka coming into the game and had made two outs already, which is why Girardi left Tanaka in to face him.
But this time was different.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Goins rocketed a high slider over Judges head and into the seats beyond right field for his eighth homer of the season.
The only other grand slam of his career came in May.
Tanaka has had a difficult season, and the Yankees have been unable to determine the reason.
Tanaka said that it was a mechanical problem and that he would have to analyze videotape of Fridays outing to determine what flaw had doomed him.
Girardi attributed Tanakas troubles to inconsistency throughout the season with his split-fingered fastball and his slider.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Tanaka is 12-12, and his E.R.A.
is 4.94.
He has surrendered seven earned runs in two of his last three starts, and should the Yankees make it to the divisional round of the playoffs, his spot in the rotation could be in doubt.
You look at everything, Girardi said.
But I dont want to get too far ahead of ourselves.
We still havent clinched anything.
We need to win games, and we need to play well.
And tonight we didnt.
The Yankees will have more shots to clinch a playoff berth, but their chances to win the American League East grew smaller as the Red Sox beat the Cincinnati Reds, 5-4, increasing their lead over the Yankees to four games with nine to play.
We are still looking to win the division, Frazier said.
We know we have a really good shot at making the playoffs, of course, but we still have an opportunity to win the division, so I think our mind-set is on that.
Choosing a new manager  perhaps Ausmus, Sandy Alomar Jr., or a former Met like Alex Cora, Joe McEwing or Robin Ventura  is likely to be Aldersons first priority this winter.
An easier decision should be replacing the medical and training staff.
No one can say precisely how many of the Mets injuries could have been anticipated, prevented or minimized.
But the sheer volume of debilitating physical problems to major players demands some kind of accountability.
These Mets might have been flawed in their construction.
But with the injuries, they never had a chance to find out.
Remove Noah Syndergaard, Matt Harvey, Steven Matz, Zack Wheeler, Jeurys Familia, Yoenis Cespedes, Michael Conforto and David Wright, and of course the team flatlined.
Solving the health riddle is Aldersons most important task.
He seems open to ideas.
The injuries are not just an objective fact; there are underlying causes and issues that weve wanted to and have examined in connection with those injuries, Alderson said.
Its not going to happen just at the end of the season.
Its been an ongoing review.
As for his own performance, Alderson said, the players he sought at the trading deadline should show where he went wrong earlier.
In dealing several veterans, Alderson sought one asset most: relievers.
This seasons bullpen was too thin from the start.
I think thats sort of a tacit recognition that, look, we need to get better there, he said.
Alderson was right last winter not to match the Atlanta Braves one-year, $12.5 million offer to Bartolo Colon, who had steadied the Mets rotation for three memorable seasons.
Colon looks finished now.
His 6.63 earned run average, with the Braves and the Minnesota Twins, is the worst in the majors for pitchers with at least 20 starts.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But the Mets were not as deep in starters as they thought.
By Memorial Day, they had given desperate promotions to Tommy Milone, Adam Wilk and Tyler Pill, who have combined to go 0-7.
Clearly, they need more than just bullpen depth.
We also are going to have to look at the rotation and see whether theres some stabilizing addition we can make that will help us bridge some of the uncertainty that comes from pitchers whove been hurt and are coming back, Alderson said.
Well be in a similar situation next year as we were this year, and hoping for better results  but perhaps planning for the possibility that they dont all come back.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

With few high-impact starters besides Jake Arrieta and Yu Darvish on the free-agent market, the Mets might have to overpay for a reliable mid-rotation arm like Andrew Cashner, Alex Cobb, Lance Lynn or Jason Vargas.
Whomever they pursue, Alderson acknowledged that with so much uncertainty in the rotation, the Mets would have to pay closer attention to defense.
Shortstop Amed Rosario has been a revelation in the field, but can the rest of the lineup bash enough to support Juan Lagares, who has a weak bat but a sterling glove in center field?
When your pitchers arent striking everybody out, as weve had the benefit of in the past, the defense becomes a little more important, Alderson said, adding that there has been a recognition after this year that if were going to have pitching that puts the ball in play a little more, then the defense is going to have to be more of a priority.
If only the Mets had forgiven Daniel Murphy his defensive shortcomings, instead of letting him leave after his slugging led them to the 2015 World Series.
Murphy came back to town this weekend hitting .316 with 22 homers in the second season of a bargain three-year, $37.5 million contract with Washington.
Murphy was out of the lineup Friday, easing into another playoff run.
His Mets replacement, Neil Walker, was traded last month to Milwaukee.
Maybe Murphy will start on Saturday to face his old teammates, Syndergaard and Harvey, who will pitch for the Mets.
Syndergaard has not pitched since April 30 because of a torn right latissimus muscle, and he will work the first inning only.
Harvey, who has been shelled in his return from shoulder trouble, will follow.
Not long ago, they were swaggering superheroes, Thor and the Dark Knight.
Their return will be a bittersweet episode of a failed series.
In the back of your mind, youre saying, If we could have had these guys   Collins said.
But you didnt.
Thats the reality of it all.
You try not to get caught up in what could have been, because it didnt.
Photo

TORONTO  Yankees third baseman Todd Frazier, who hit the foul ball that struck a young girl in the face at Yankee Stadium on Wednesday afternoon, said he spoke to the girls father on Thursday and had been told that she was recovering well in a hospital.
He said shes doing good, Frazier said before the Yankees played the Toronto Blue Jays on Friday night.
He said the family is really happy that shes O.K.
I think they are going to do a couple more tests over the next few days, and hopefully she can get out of there.
Frazier said the girls father told him not to blame himself, and Frazier said he felt a measure of relief after the conversation.
He added that he planned to check in with the family every day, at least until the girl is discharged from the hospital.
He also said he hoped to meet her soon.
Since the incident, three major league teams have announced that they will extend the protective netting at their parks to the full lengths of the dugouts.
Another team, the Colorado Rockies, said it had already been considering the move.
Ten other teams have already extended their netting.
The Yankees, while expressing concern for the girl in public statements, have not specifically addressed whether they will extend their netting.
Frazier said it was time for all teams to do so immediately, even before the regular season ends on Oct. 1.
I think 2018 is already too late, he said.
They should be up sooner than that.
Eppler propped up his offense on Aug. 31  the last day to add players who could be eligible for the postseason  by trading for outfielder Justin Upton and second baseman Brandon Phillips, adding firepower to a lineup led by the peerless Mike Trout.
But the rotation has stayed in constant flux.
Only one pitcher has thrown 150 innings  Ricky Nolasco, whose earned run average is 5.06.
Elbow trouble cost Garrett Richards five months and ended the seasons of J. C. Ramirez and Alex Meyer.
Another starter, Andrew Heaney, is out with a sore shoulder, and the Angels plan to replace him with a procession of relievers, as they did in a seven-man, tag-team victory on Sept. 15.
Given all that, it is no surprise that the Angels have set a club record for victories by relievers.
Their bullpen has been fairly stable, with five pitchers working at least 55 games.
The staff has been helped greatly by impeccable team defense, which FanGraphs ranked as the second best in the majors, behind only the Boston Red Sox.
We laid the blueprint out in the wintertime, as far as understanding theres a run-producing aspect and a run-prevention aspect, Eppler said.
Lets try to grow the distance between those two variables as great as we can.
The Angels two best defenders, according to FanGraphs, have been shortstop Andrelton Simmons and catcher Martin Maldonado.
Eppler acquired Simmons from Atlanta before last season, and Maldonado from Milwaukee last winter.
Those moves and others might help the Angels squeeze into the playoffs, if they make the most of their remaining games against Houston, Seattle and the Chicago White Sox.
If they make it, the Angels could meet a fitting opponent in the American League wild-card game on Oct. 3  the Yankees.
We benefited from Billys baseball I.Q.
for a long time, like the Angels are now, Cashman said last week.
Im not surprised by any success they have, because they hired the right man, and they will benefit for a long time from that decision.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

An Assist From a Button

Sure, he lacked the balletic grace of Byron Buxton, Kevin Pillar or Andrelton Simmons.
But Nick Pivetta, a pitcher for the Philadelphia Phillies, might have made the catch of the year during his teams recent four-game series victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers.
With two outs in the sixth inning on Monday, the Dodgers Austin Barnes smoked a liner back up the middle at 106 miles per hour, too fast for Pivetta to get a glove on it.
Instead, his button-down jersey made the play for him.
Had Pivetta been pitching for the Phillies from 1973 to 1986, when the team wore zipper-front jerseys, this would have been impossible.
But Barness hit nestled inside Pivettas shirt, entering between the buttons, and Pivetta stayed upright.
He reached inside his jersey, found the ball and flipped it behind him as he trotted off the field to end the inning.
Actually, its funny, Pivetta told reporters after the game.
My last game in junior college, on one of the outs, I had a ball similar to that.
I caught it in my stomach.
That one hit my forearm, then my stomach.
So thats the second time it happened to me.
I didnt even see the ball.
Technically, Pivetta needed to throw the ball to first to complete the out.
According to Rule 5.09(a): A catch is the act of a fielder in getting secure possession in his hand or glove of a ball in flight and firmly holding it; providing he does not use his cap, protector, pocket or any other part of his uniform in getting possession.
But the umpires ruled it a catch, the Dodgers did not complain  and it was clearly Pivettas night, anyway.
He has a 6.57 earned run average for the season, but on Monday he beat the three-time Cy Young Award winner Clayton Kershaw to earn his sixth victory.
Stamina in the Bullpen

Few playoff teams have a reliever quite like Chris Devenski of the Houston Astros.
Devenski has thrown 78 and one-third innings in relief this season, more than any other pitcher for a division-leading team.
He could be the Astros answer to Clevelands Andrew Miller as a critical multiple-inning weapon for the playoffs.
Photo

Devenski worked more than one inning 17 times before pitching in the All-Star Game, his first, and he has done so far less often since then, which should keep him rested for October.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Astros acquired Devenski to little fanfare in a 2012 trade with the Chicago White Sox for Brett Myers, a veteran who was pitching his last full season in the majors.
Devenski, who had been drafted in the 25th round the year before, was in low Class A with a 4.23 E.R.A.
I had a lot of failure in the minor leagues, and I always learned something from it, he said this summer.
It helps me become better.
The pitcher I am now, he goes out there and he dominates.
Theres going to be rough times, but thats part of the game.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Devenski dominates with a changeup he learned in high school but took many years to perfect.
He recognized the pitch as his ticket to the majors shortly after the trade, when he used it for about 60 percent of his pitches in a 16-strikeout, Class A no-hitter.
Even as his E.R.A.
swelled to 6.60 the next year, Devenski kept faith in the changeup.
I had to just continue to throw it and throw it and throw it, Devenski said.
Its like if youre digging for coal and youve got diamonds on the other side of the coal and you continue to dig and continue to dig.
What if you give up, and you were two inches away from the diamonds?
Its kind of like I did the same thing with my changeup.
I was going to continue to throw this and throw this and throw this until something good came out of it.
I always knew I could develop it into something nasty.
Devenski throws his changeup around 83 miles an hour, and his fastball around 94.
He throws both pitches about 40 percent of the time, and also uses a slider.
It is a rare three-pitch mix for a reliever, but useful for one who may face hitters more than once per game.
Devenski spoke with Miller about their roles at the All-Star Game, and the two could meet again in the playoffs.
Not many teams, if any teams, have what he can do for them right now, his flexibility, his length, Miller said in July.
I dont think anybodys looking forward to facing the Astros for a lot of reasons, but hes certainly part of it.
Near-Miss No-Hitters

The Detroit Tigers Matthew Boyd lost a no-hitter with two outs in the ninth inning last Sunday when Tim Anderson of the Chicago White Sox lined a two-out double to right.
That was the sixth time this season that a no-hitter had been broken up in the ninth inning or later, the most in the majors since 1989.
Photo

That season, Kirk McCaskill, John Farrell, Tom Browning, Dave Stieb and Nolan Ryan  twice!
lost no-hitters in the ninth.
Ryan had thrown five of his record seven no-hitters by then, Browning had tossed a perfect game the year before and Stieb would get his no-hitter the next season.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This years group has never pitched a no-hitter.
After the Miami Marlins lost a combined no-hitter by Wei-Yin Chen, Brad Ziegler and Kyle Barraclough in April, Atlantas Mike Foltynewicz, Colorados Kyle Freeland, Washingtons Gio Gonzalez, the Los Angeles Dodgers Rich Hill (in the 10th inning) and Boyd joined the list.
Only one pitcher has finished a no-hitter this season: Miamis Edinson Volquez against Arizona on June 3.
Alas, the season did not end happily for Volquez, who two months later underwent Tommy John surgery for the second time in his career.
Speaking of Volquez, 34, how many pitchers have experienced as many extremes as he has?
Besides his no-hitter and surgeries, Volquez has been traded for Josh Hamilton (in 2007); made an All-Star team (2008); served a suspension for performance-enhancing drugs (2010); lost his playoff debut, when Philadelphias Roy Halladay threw a no-hitter against him (2010); started on opening day for three teams (San Diego in 2012 and 2013, Kansas City in 2016, Miami in 2017); started Game 1 of the World Series the day his father died, then started the clincher five days later (in 2015); and in various seasons led his league in earned runs, walks, hit batters and wild pitches.
Advertisement

Baseball Diamonds Arent Forever: Bygone Ballparks of New York Much of the games history can be traced through these five ballparks, which have all been torn down.
When shortstop Don Zimmers throw settled into first baseman Gil Hodgess glove to seal a 2-0 victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates 60 years ago this month, the Dodgers had played their final game in Brooklyn.
With the Dodgers gone from Brooklyn, so was professional baseball at their longtime ballpark, Ebbets Field.
Before long, Ebbets Field was gone, too, one in a series of ballparks that nurtured major league baseball in New York City before succumbing to the wrecking ball.
Five New York ballparks built in baseballs modern era, which began early in the 20th century  Hilltop Park (1903-12), the Polo Grounds (1911-63), Ebbets Field (1913-57), Yankee Stadium (1923-2008) and Shea Stadium (1964-2008)  seeded much of the games history before being torn down.
You can trace that history, and even more than baseball, below.
Image The Brooklyn Dodgers in their heyday at Ebbets Field.
The Dodgers won six National League pennants in their final 11 seasons in the ballpark.
Credit Ernie Sisto/The New York Times

Ebbets Field

First game: April 9, 1913.
Philadelphia Phillies 1, Dodgers 0.
Brooklyn Starts Season a Loser.
Benny Meyer Upsets Game by His Errors  Cold Chills 10,000 Fans.
Advertisement

Last game: Sept. 24, 1957.
Dodgers 2, Pittsburgh Pirates 0.
Dodgers Defeat Pirates in Ebbets Field Finale.
MDevitt Victor on 5-Hitter, 2-0.
Other games: An N.F.L.
team played at Ebbets Field from 1930 to 1944, as the Dodgers (1930-43) and the Tigers (44).
The teams had three winning records in 15 seasons.
The Brooklyn Eagles of the Negro National League played one season there, 1935.
Their owners, Abe and Effa Manley, later owned the star-studded Newark Eagles.
Distinguishing architectural feature: 80-foot-high Italian marble rotunda.
Short porch in right field: 297 feet, although with a high wall and, eventually, a scoreboard and a net.
Left-handed-hitting beneficiary: Duke Snider, 175 home runs at Ebbets Field.
Image Fans waiting at Ebbets Field to buy World Series tickets in 1955, Brooklyns only championship season.
Two years later, the Dodgers left; in 1960, the ballpark was razed.
Credit Neal Boenzi/The New York Times

Casey Stengel connection: Dodgers outfielder, playing at Ebbets Field from its opening season, 1913, through 1917.
The teams were mostly terrible, except for a pennant in 1916.
Dodgers manager, 1934-36.
Those teams were also terrible, compiling a record of 208-251.
Babe Ruth connection: Played two games at Ebbets Field for the Boston Braves in his final season, 1935; went hitless in eight plate appearances.
Coach for the 1938 Dodgers .
Subway World Series: Brooklyn faced the Yankees in 1941, 1947, 1949, 1952, 1953, 1955 and 1956.
Wait till next year except in 1955.
Music: The Sym-Phony Band, a group of fans who played in the stands during games.
Sample number: Three Blind Mice for the umpires.
Whats there now: Apartments.
Fun fact: In 1931 a Gaelic football match was played at night under portable lights, seven years before the first night game there.
Image The distinctively shaped Polo Grounds  like a horseshoe or a bathtub?
was home to three major league baseball teams (Giants, Yankees, Mets) and two professional football teams (Giants, Titans/Jets).
Credit Associated Press

Polo Grounds

First game: June 28, 1911.
Giants 3, Boston Beaneaters 0.
Giants Reopen Polo Grounds and Win : The Times reported that more than 6,000 fans in the half-finished ballpark saw Boston perform its customary daily act of being defeated.
Last game: Sept. 18, 1963: Phillies 5, Mets 1.
Era of Mets Ends at Polo Grounds : The Giants had a last game in 1957 before moving to San Francisco.
Then the Mets had a goodbye ceremony for the Polo Ground s in 1962.
But Shea Stadium was not ready for the 1963 season, so they had one more Polo Grounds farewell.
Advertisement

Other games: The Yankees played at the Polo Grounds from 1913 to 1922.
The N.F.L.
Giants played there from 1925 to 1955.
The Titans/Jets of the A.F.L.
played there from 1960 to 1963.
College football, especially Army.
The New York Cubans of the Negro leagues played frequently at the Polo Grounds from 1935 to 1950.
Jack Dempsey was knocked out of the ring there (but climbed back in and knocked out Luis Firpo in the next round).
In the waning years of the Polo Grounds, auto racing was conducted.
Richard Pettys father, Lee, raced there.
Distinguishing architectural feature: Horseshoe or bathtub shape, depending on how you looked at it.
Image Credit

Short porch in right field: 258 feet.
Beneficiaries: Mel Ott (323 home runs at the Polo Grounds).
Babe Ruth (85 home runs in 227 games before Yankee Stadium opened).
Short porch in left field: 279 feet.
Beneficiary: Bobby Thomson, who hit the so-called Shot Heard Round the World in 1951 down the left-field line.
Casey Stengel connection: Giants outfielder, 1921-23.
Mets manager, 1962-63.
Babe Ruth connection: Played there three seasons for the Yankees (1920-22) plus in three World Series (losing the first two, in 1921 and 22, when the Polo Grounds was the home for both teams).
Subway World Series: 1921-23.
Music: A chorus of 1,200 and a full orchestra performed Verdis Requiem in June 1916.
The Times called it impressive and interesting and as delightful as could be expected given the open-air acoustics.
The Giants werent playing because it was a Sunday.
Whats there now: Apartments.
Fun fact: Polo was never played at this version of the Polo Grounds below Coogans Bluff, only at the original site, on 110th Street, in the 1880s.
Image Babe Ruth scoring a run in his final season with the Yankees, in 1934.
Yankee Stadium was already known as the House That Ruth Built.
Credit Associated Press

Yankee Stadium

First game: April 18, 1923.
Yankees 4, Red Sox 1.
74,200 See Yankees Open New Stadium; Ruth Hits Home Run.
Record Baseball Crowd Cheers as Sluggers Drive Beats Red Sox, 4 to 1.
25,000 Are Turned Away.
Gates to $2,500,000 Arena Are Closed Half an Hour Before Start of Game.
Governor Smith Throws Out First Ball  Shawkey, in Great Form, Allows Only Three Hits : It was the first ballpark to be called a stadium.
Last game: Sept. 21, 2008.
Yankees 7, Orioles 3.
A Long Goodbye to an 85-Year Run 

Other games: The N.F.L.
Giants played there from 1956 to 1973.
The Stadium was the site of what came to be called  The Greatest Game Ever Played,  the 1958 championship game between the Giants and the Baltimore Colts.
College football, especially Army-Notre Dame games.
Host to a groundbreaking Negro league baseball doubleheader in 1930, then was the frequent home of the New York Black Yankees for much of the time from 1936 to 1947.
Joe Louis and Muhammad Ali fought major fights there; Alis third bout with Ken Norton was the final fight staged at the Stadium.
Distinguishing architectural feature: Frieze decorating the top of the Stadium.
Short porch in right field: Originally 258 feet, then 295 feet.
Advertisement

Left-handed-hitting beneficiaries: Mickey Mantle (266 home runs, though not all left-handed), Babe Ruth (259) and Lou Gehrig (251).
Image The roofline frieze was such an elemental part of the design of old Yankee Stadium that it was incorporated in the new Stadium.
The Yankees didn't recycle all those pillars, though.
Credit Patrick A. Burns/The New York Times

Casey Stengel connection: Played in the first World Series game there as a member of the Giants in 1923, hitting the game-deciding home run in the top of the ninth.
Yankees manager, 1949-60.
They were terrific, winning 10 pennants and seven World Series in 12 years.
Babe Ruth connection: It was called the House That Ruth Built.
He played there from 1923 to 1934.
Subway World Series: 1923, 1936, 1937 and 1951, against the Giants; 1941, 1947, 1949, 1952, 1953, 1955 and 1956, against the Dodgers; and 2000, against the Mets.
11-1 in those Series.
Music: The first concert was a 1969 R&B show hosted by the Isley Brothers.
Later artists included U2 and Billy Joel.
Whats there now: Athletic fields, including three diamonds, adjacent to the new Yankee Stadium.
Fun fact: A year after the evangelist Billy Graham attracted 100,000 people, a Jehovahs Witnesses convention drew more than 123,000 people to the ballpark in 1958.
Many of those outside munched hot dogs as they listened to the speeches over amplifiers, The Times reported.
Image Shea Stadium was home to young fans and other baseball staples  peanut shells on the ground and popcorn in hand.
Credit John Orris/The New York Times

Shea Stadium

First game: April 17, 1964.
Pittsburgh Pirates 4, Mets 3.
Shea Stadium Opens With Big Traffic Jam.
Last game: Sept. 28, 2008.
Florida Marlins 4, Mets 2.
Bitter Repeat on.
Stadiums Final Day 

Other games: The Jets played at Shea from 1964 to 1983, and the Giants joined them for the 1975 season.
The Yankees played there in 1974-75 while Yankee Stadium was being renovated.
So in 1975, Shea was home to two major league baseball teams and two N.F.L.
teams.
Not especially good teams: The Mets were 82-80, the Yankees 83-77, the Jets 3-11 and the Giants 5-9.
Thats an overall 173-177 record.
The teams were 88-85 at Shea.
Distinguishing architectural feature: The big apple in center field.
Image The Mayors Trophy exhibition game at Shea in 1964 reunited Casey Stengel, the former Yankees manager who was then managing the Mets, with two of his old Yankees stars, Mickey Mantle and Yogi Berra.
Credit Larry C. Morris/The New York Times

Porch in right field: Not short at all, 338 feet.
Left-handed-hitting victim: Darryl Strawberry (127 home runs at Shea.
With a fence 40 feet closer, how many?).
Advertisement

Casey Stengel connection: Managed the Mets there in 1964-65.
Subway World Series: 2000.
The Yankees won.
Music: The Beatles ushered in the era of arena concerts, playing at Shea on Aug. 15, 1965 , and Aug. 23, 1966.
The Police drew 70,000 there in 1983.
Whats there now: A parking lot for Citi Field.
Fun fact: A dome was proposed for Shea in March 1965, and the citys sports commissioner said it could be ready in 1966.
Turns out, however, that the stadiums foundation could not stand the weight.
Image Hilltop Park in its final season, 1912.
The Highlanders, who became the Yankees, lost 102 games that season and never won a pennant while playing in the ballpark.
Credit George Grantham Bain Collection, via Library of Congress

Hilltop Park

First game: April 30, 1903.
Highlanders 6, Senators 2.
Baseballs Big Crowd.
Auspicious Opening of American League Grounds in This City.
Home Team Won From Washington  New York National League Nine Lost in Philadelphia.
Last game: Oct. 5, 1912.
Yankees 8, Senators 6.
Senators Force Yankees to Win.
With Second Place Safe, Griffith Sends Nick Altrock Into the Box on Hilltop.
Other games: The National League Giants spent two months playing at Hilltop Park after the Polo Grounds burned down before the start of the 1911 season.
Columbia Universitys football team rented the ballpark for its game against Williams on Oct. 8, 1904, forcing the baseball team then known as the Highlanders to relocate a doubleheader to Boston in the heat of a pennant race.
The Highlanders lost both games and also lost the pennant to the Pilgrims (now Red Sox) by one and a half games.
Columbia, however, won the football game .
Image Credit

Distinguishing architectural feature: The ballpark was built on high ground in Washington Heights, thus earning its name.
Distant porch in right field: 400 feet.
Center field was even more unreachable: 542 feet.
Victim: Everyone.
The best Highlanders slugger in that Dead Ball Era: Hal Chase, 20 home runs at Hilltop Park.
Whats there now: Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.
Fun fact: The ballpark was originally, if briefly, called American League Park.
And The Times called the team the Greater New York Club and the Greater New Yorks on opening day.
They quickly became the Highlanders and before long the Yankees.
That will leave more than a dozen teams with netting that goes beyond Manfreds 2015 recommendation.
More and more, the Twins have company.
From our perspective, it was simply the right thing to do, St. Peter said of the 2016 extension.
Im happy to report, over time, theres no doubt in my mind our nets here have prevented some injuries.
Its hard to quantify just how many.
Mostly batted balls, but sometimes even bats that sometimes fly out of batters hands.
The Twins allowed season ticket-holders to check out the sight lines behind the new netting before the 2016 season and to request a seat relocation if they found the view unacceptable.
St. Peter said roughly 10 customers took the Twins up on the offer.
For our season-ticket base, netting is part of their new reality, he said.
Target Field was built on a tight, eight-acre parcel, bordered by two bridges, an interstate highway and a garbage incinerator.
Railroad tracks had to be relocated.
The close quarters gave Target Field, which opened in 2010, an intimate feel.
But it also left fans closer to hard-hit foul balls.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
St. Peter said the club was discussing whether to add even more netting.
The Mets added netting this summer at Citi Field that stretches halfway into the outfield, and St. Peter wouldnt rule out some clubs eventually deciding to run netting all the way to the foul poles.
I think over time youre going to see more netting across the industry, with hopes of doing everything we can to prevent the types of injury that took place yesterday, St. Peter said.
We still have injuries in our ballpark and weve added more netting.
It isnt a perfect system.
Thats why its something we always need to continually evaluate and find ways to get better.
I have to tell you, he added, were not married to our current net configuration.
We expect over time it will probably grow.
St. Peter also noted that he had watched video replays of Wednesdays incident and had been shaken by what he witnessed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Yankee Stadium has netting that only runs to the beginning of each dugout.
If it ran the length of the dugouts, as it does at Target Field, the line drive that struck the girl would have almost certainly been deflected away.
On Thursday, Manfred that in light of Wednesdays incident, baseball would redouble its efforts to get more teams to add protective netting in their ballparks.
He also said he was encouraged by the number of conversations his office had with various clubs on Thursday about installing more netting.
So a trend the Twins began may be gathering more momentum.
This summer, they stretched the netting at Citi Field halfway into the outfield.
In response, Trost offered what amounted to a verbal shrug.
We have fans that are communicating with us that they are upset that were even considering it, he said of any additional netting at Yankee Stadium beyond what Manfred had asked for.
Trosts statement certainly suggested that the Yankees were as mindful of their high-paying fans who didnt want extra screens interfering with their views as they were with keeping everyone safe.
At that time, in late July, Trost said that the Yankees were consulting with the architectural firm that built their stadium about the feasibility of installing extra netting.
He said the Yankees would think about it and study it and look at it.
We dont think this is a three-day job, he said.
Well, then, is it a 60-day job?
Because thats about how long it has been since Trost made that statement.
I bet it could be a three-hour job if that little girl in the stands on Wednesday night was your child.
Yes, the Yankees also put a statement on their website in early August saying that they were seriously exploring additional netting, but they have said little on the matter since then.
On Thursday, they issued a statement saying their thoughts and prayers were with the injured girl and that they were in contact with her family.
But thoughts and prayers are not enough.
Meanwhile, across town, the Mets look like champions for extending their netting and doing so proactively before something awful happened.
After all, safety changes in sports almost always seem to happen only after disasters happen.
It was only when a 13-year-old girl was killed by a flying puck at an N.H.L.
game in 2002 that the league called for mandatory netting to be installed at both ends of the rink.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

So now the question is what it will take for Major League Baseball to make every team do what some teams already have and extend the protective netting even more.
Youd figure that a toddler getting hit in the face would be the tipping point and there were signs on Thursday that maybe it will be, with three teams  Cincinnati, Seattle, San Diego  all saying they would extend the netting now in their ballparks.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
It is worth remembering in all this that, for decades, there have been harrowing incidents at baseball games in which fans were injured.
In 1970, a 14-year-old boy was killed by a foul ball at Dodgers Stadium.
Many years and many injuries later, a Red Sox fan in 2015 was hit with a broken bat at Fenway Park and suffered serious injuries.
Following the Fenway incident, Manfred stated that the sports first and foremost concern remains the safety of our fans.
He also noted that the issue was complicated, since some fans want to sit close to the field.
And when Manfred subsequently made the suggestion to all 30 teams that they add some additional netting, he cited another complication  that each stadium is designed differently.
These complications all have the feel of an excuse.
And in the end, safety issues never go away.
Consider what Nascar has been through.
For years, Nascar officials and racetrack owners have struggled to balance fan safety with the desire of some to sit as close as possible to the track.
In 2013, in what certainly wasnt the first big crash at Daytona International Speedway that injured spectators, more than 30 fans were hurt when debris flew into the stands.
One of the injured fans said he suffered a traumatic brain injury, and this year finally settled a lawsuit with Nascar.
After that 2013 crash, the speedway was renovated.
Its website touted that the front row will be moved up 12 feet to improve trackside views.
Unsaid, likely on purpose: to improve the chance you wont be hit by a flying tire.
No sport wants to acknowledge that its fans arent safe.
What it should acknowledge is its duty to do everything in its power to keep them safe.
And thats where baseball should find itself right now.
On Thursday, Manfred took note of Wednesdays incident in a statement and said that baseball officials would redouble our efforts on this important issue, although how much pressure he will ultimately apply on reluctant teams is unclear.
He did tell reporters on Thursday night in San Diego that he was encouraged by how many conversations his office was now having with teams about adding more netting.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Players know putting in more netting is the right thing to do.
Many, including the Yankees C. C. Sabathia, say they wont let their families sit in the stands without netting in front of them.
Theyve called for ballparks to be safer for fans.
If you saw the look on Todd Fraziers face on Wednesday after his line drive hit the little girl, you would know why.
Frazier, who has two children who are younger than 3, crouched.
He rested his head on his bat.
He looked like he was about to cry.
Its time for teams, all the teams, to have those human emotions, too  and act on them.
Its called doing the right thing.
Photo

MIAMI  Giancarlo Stanton hit his 56th homer, the most in the major leagues, and drove in three runs as the Miami Marlins completed a three-game sweep of the Mets with a 9-2 victory on Wednesday.
Stanton connected in the eighth inning for his 30th home run since the All-Star break.
It was his 35th career homer against the Mets, including eight this year.
He kills us.
He literally kills us, Mets Manager Terry Collins said.
You cant hang stuff.
We had him down and away all series long when we made pitches.
When you make mistakes on the plate, he kills you, and he did today.
Stanton also hit a run-scoring single, giving him 120 R.B.I.
on the season.
He made a fine catch, too, against the right-field fence to rob Asdrubal Cabrera.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A. J. Ellis and Miguel Rojas hit back-to-back homers off Mets reliever Erik Goeddel to start the eighth.
With one out, Stanton pulled a breaking pitch over the left-field fence for a two-run homer.
Under the prodding of Commissioner Rob Manfred in 2015, all 30 teams agreed to extend the traditional protective netting behind home plate to at least the inner edge of both dugouts.
About a third of the teams have extended the netting further, to at least the far end of the dugout, and the Mets added netting even beyond that.
However, the Yankees have yet to expand their nets, although they did issue a statement in August that said they were seriously exploring that option.
Photo

If Yankee Stadium had netting in place that did stretch to the far end of the third-base dugout, Fraziers line drive, in all likelihood, would not have reached the stands.
As a result, Wednesdays incident will almost certainly increase pressure on the Yankees to act quickly to make their netting longer.
New York City Councilman Rafael Espinal, who introduced legislation in May to require all New York City baseball stadiums to have protective netting all the way to the foul poles, said after Wednesdays episode that he would hold a public hearing on the issue on Oct. 25.
I commend the Mets for stepping to the plate and leading the country by extending their netting farther than any other team, Espinal said in a statement.
We have been waiting to hear from the Yankees on their plans on how they will move forward and urge them to let the public know as soon as possible where they stand.
According to a Yankee Stadium paramedic, who was not authorized to publicly discuss fan injuries, the girl appeared to have been struck by the ball in the nose and right eye and was bleeding when she was carried by her grandfather to a first aid station behind the stands.
That was a screaming line drive, said Tom Barton, a fan from San Francisco who said he was seated three rows behind the girl.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
I just wanted to cry for this little kid, he added.
There was so much blood.
Steve Beattie, who lives in Vancouver, British Columbia, said he was sitting about eight rows behind the girl and described what he witnessed as brutal.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

According to the stadium scoreboard, the ball left Fraziers bat at 106 miles per hour.
It was terrible, Frazier said afterward.
It was something I wish had never happened.
Very unlucky, man.
I have two kids under 3 years old and I thought of them.
I just hope shes all right.
Frazier and his teammates Chase Headley, Brett Gardner and C. C. Sabathia were in agreement that protective netting needed to be extended at Yankee Stadium, echoing statements that Mets players made after the Citi Field netting was expanded.
Photo

I feel like we need to get the net, said Sabathia, who said he insists his own children sit behind netting whenever they come to a game.
I think every ballpark should have it.
Twins second baseman Brian Dozier said he cried when he saw the girl get hit.
I still have a knot in my stomach, he said.
Every stadium needs to have nets.
I dont care about the damn view of the fan.
Its all about safety.
Back in late July, after the Mets used the All-Star Game break to extend their protective netting about halfway into the outfield, the Yankees were asked for their reaction.
Lonn Trost, the teams chief operating officer and general counsel, responded by saying the Yankees had begun talking to the Yankee Stadium architects about the feasibility of more netting.
But he also noted that he received complaints from some fans who sit in box seats and who would have their views affected by additional netting.
We have fans that are communicating with us that they are upset that were even considering it, Trost said.
Not long after Trost made that comment, a fan at Yankee Stadium was hit in the head by a foul ball off the bat of Aaron Judge.
And, coincidence or not, the Yankees a short while later published a statement on their website saying they were looking closely at a netting extension.
The third incident at Yankee Stadium this season occurred in May, when the barrel of a shattered bat struck a boy sitting about six rows from the field, just past the third-base dugout.
He was taken from the stands holding a towel to his forehead.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Trost did not respond to request for comments after Wednesdays incident.
The Yankees issued a statement noting the girl had been given first aid at the stadium and then taken to an area hospital.
The team said federal patient privacy laws prevented them from providing more information.
So after Matz missed the first two months of the 2017 season with what the Mets described as elbow inflammation, it seemed like more of the same.
Still, the Mets did not express concern that there was something seriously wrong with his arm.
Matz said team doctors told him the inflammation might have been a side effect from the bone spur surgery the previous fall, and they prescribed rest and platelet-rich plasma injections.
Matz then returned to the rotation in early June and pitched fairly well in his first five starts.
But he then began to pitch less effectively, his earned run average ballooned, and by the second half of August, the Mets medical staff decided to take another look.
This time, on Aug. 21, they concluded that he had ulnar nerve irritation in his elbow.
Two days later, Matz underwent surgery to reposition the nerve  the same operation Jacob deGrom underwent last fall and from which he has made a successful comeback this season.
Matz said in a recent interview that he was glad the teams medical staff had figured out this issue, and took heart in the notion that he, like deGrom, would recover well.
Still, questions linger, particularly in a lost season in which so much has gone wrong for the Mets on the injury front.
Isnt it reasonable to think the ulnar nerve issue was bothering Matz for some time?
If so, could the problem have been detected sooner?
Should Matz have been pitching at all from June to August, if, as he later admitted, he was dealing with discomfort off and on that began in spring training?
Photo

These are, of course, the kinds of questions the Mets have been confronted with as other players, like Noah Syndergaard and Yoenis Cespedes, ended up with their seasons derailed.
And the questions are never easily answered.
Sandy Alderson, the Mets general manager, declined to talk about the way Matzs case unfolded.
But what is known is that only after it was announced that he would undergo surgery for the ulnar nerve problem was it revealed that he had been skipping numerous bullpen sessions between starts this season.
And that he was limiting the use of a secondary pitch, a slider, in hopes of lessening the strain on his troublesome elbow.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But if that was the case, was he healthy enough to pitch in the first place?
Ultimately, it was my decision, Matz said recently in an interview when asked about the 13 starts he made this season before he was shut down.
I wanted to go out there and pitch because Im so sick of being on the D.L.
And I did everything I could.
Matzs frequent injuries have frustrated some within the Mets organization, something Matz is no doubt aware of.
He tries to keep himself in top physical shape and seems careful about what he puts in his body.
For instance, when his bone spur was discovered early last season, he resisted taking anti-inflammatory medicine.
And this season, Matz said he received only a couple of shots of the anti-inflammatory drug Toradol for his balky elbow.
Some guys take it more, he said.
It definitely helps.
Matz said that when he did pitch this season he felt more discomfort between starts than when on the mound, when adrenaline kicked in.
His average fastball velocity was 93.1 miles per hour, similar to last years average of 93.6.
As Matzs pitching deteriorated this summer, he tried to push through the pain, in part because the diagnosis he received in spring training concluded that there was no structural damage to his elbow.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In my mind, he said, Im like: The M.R.I.
is clean, so this is something Im going to have to deal with.
I either have an arthritic elbow or whatever it is, but Im going to have to get past it.
Last season, after the Mets assured him he would not do additional damage to his elbow by pitching through the bone spur, surgery was pushed off until a shoulder injury short-circuited his season.
This time around, with his elbow barking, he took the same approach.
He said his elbow felt better on some days than on others.
He could extend his elbow as far as it could go, but he said it bothered him a little bit to twist his arm properly, which was perhaps affecting the movement and location of his pitches.
Even that admission, during the interview, took a bit of prodding.
Like most players, Matz is competitive and had convinced himself that discomfort was inevitable as a pitcher.
Photo

I definitely respect him for trying, deGrom said.
Youre not going to feel good every time you go out there  its a lot of games and a lot of pitches  even when there is nothing wrong.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We knew all along that it was irritating and he was unable to do his bullpens most of the time, Dan Warthen, the Mets pitching coach, said.
He wanted to pitch through it.
Doctors kept saying that physically it was O.K.
and there was nothing wrong in there; it was just an irritation.
We werent going to shut him down unless he wanted to.
Matz, meanwhile, denied that he received any pressure from the Mets to stay on the mound this season.
I didnt feel any pressure from the team, he said.
Did I feel pressure from myself?
I want to be out there competing and pitching.
But after he allowed six earned runs over three and a third innings against the Yankees on Aug. 17, Matz said that he decided it was time to see a doctor again.
He had developed a hunch that he might be dealing with the same problem  the ulnar nerve  that had afflicted deGrom and Mets reliever Erik Goeddel.
In this instance, Matz received a computed tomography examination that involved numbing the nerve with an anesthetic.
Once that happened, he said, the pain was almost instantly gone.
One reason Matz thinks his ulnar nerve issue was not detected sooner, assuming it could have been, was that he was not experiencing telltale symptoms.
The doctor said the symptoms I was getting were nontypical for nerve problems, Matz said.
I had no tingling or numbness.
In deGroms case, his ulnar nerve irritation started as tingling in his fingers before it became sharp pain.
DeGroms performance tailed off near the end of his 2016 season, just before he had the surgery.
Now the Mets can only hope Matz recovers as well from this surgery as deGrom did, because their pitching staff, which has one of the worst earned run averages in baseball, is in serious need of rehabilitation.
Syndergaard has yet to return from his early-season latissimus tear.
Matt Harveys return from his latest injury setback has been marked by ugly outings that have been demoralizing for both him and the team.
Zack Wheeler last pitched in July.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And then there is Matz, with his repositioned ulnar nerve.
Maybe he can help in 2018, after he first files away 2017 as a season to forget.
